The first book of Dorotheusfrom the stars on the judgments concerning nativities: on the upbringing and condition [of the native]
In the name of God, the merciful and compassionate. May the lord be rich in compassion towards you. 
This is the first book of Dorotheus the Egyptian, on the judgments concerning nativities. He chose it and selected it and picked it from the books which were before him, and he wrote it for his son Hermes. 
He said to his son at the time of his testament: I shall relate to you, oh my son, and I shall explain to you so that you may depend on and be confident in your heart about what I shall show you of my work and words according to the stars which indicate for men what will pertain to them from the time of a native's birth till his leaving the world, if God wills. I have travelled, oh my son, in many cities, and I have seen the wondrous things which are in Egypt and in Babylon, which is in the direction of the Euphrates. I collected the best of their sayings from the first [authorities] who were before me like the bees which gather [honey] from the trees and all kinds of plants; for from it there is the honey of medicine. 
Chapter 1. The knowledge of the seven in longitude and latitude, and the triplicities of the signs and their lords. 
Always, my son, before everything [else] understand the seven [planets] in longitude and latitude, divide the four cardines by their degrees, and know with this the triplicities of the signs. As for the triplicities: Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius are a triplicity; Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn are a triplicity; Gemini. Libra, and Aquarius are a triplicity; and Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces are a triplicity. Know the lords of the triplicities of the signs: the lords of the triplicity of Aries by day are the Sun, then Jupiter, then Saturn, by night Jupiter, then the Sun, then Saturn; the lords of the triplicity of Taurus by day are Venus, then the Moon, then Mars, by night the Moon, then Venus, then Mars, and in Virgo is also a sham for Mercury; the lords of the triplicity of Gemini by day are Saturn, then Mercury, then Jupiter, by night Mercury, then Saturn, then Jupiter; the lords of the triplicity of Cancer by day are Venus, then Mars, then the Moon, by night Mars, then Venus, then the Moon. I tell you that everything which is decided or indicated is from the lords of the triplicities, and as for everything of afflictions and distress which reaches the people of the world and the totality of men, the lords of the triplicities decide it. 
In an eclipse of the Sun or Moon in which they indicate the things which happen and for how long it will be and of what kind it will be. If the Sun is eclipsed, its eclipse is for two hours and each hour is a year; as for what an eclipse of the Moon indicates when its eclipse is for two hours, each hour is a 
month.（＊）If the Sun is eclipsed in Aries, I say that this distress and affliction is among sheep; if it is in Sagittarius, I say it is among work-horses and horses; if it is in Leo, I say it is among lions; and similarly is it said in all the sorts of signs. 
＊：根據Jerome Cardano 
“11. An Eclipse of the Moon extends its effects as many months, and of the sun so many years, as it continues hours.” 
I know, oh my son, to which of the seven [planets] each sign belongs, and understand the signs crooked in rising and straight in rising. Know the houses of the planets: Cancer is the house of the Moon, Leo the house of the Sun, Capricorn and Aquarius the houses of Saturn, Sagittarius and Pisces the houses of Jupiter, Aries and Scorpio the houses of Mars, Taurus and Libra the houses of Venus, and Gemini and Virgo the houses of Mercury. Saturn rejoices arriving at Aquarius. Jupiter in Sagittarius. Mars in Scorpio. Venus in Taurus, and Mercury in Virgo. 
Chapter 2. The exaltation of the planets. 
The ascent of the Sun, which is its exaltation, is in nineteen degrees of Aries, of the Moon in three degrees of Taurus, of Saturn in twenty-one degrees of Libra, of Jupiter in fifteen degrees of Cancer, of Mars in twenty-eight degrees of Capricorn, of Venus in twenty-seven degrees of Pisces, and of Mercury in fifteen degrees of Virgo. The descent of each one of them is opposite to its ascent. 
Chapter 3. Judgment about the case of the native or his difficulty to his mother. 
論分娩時的狀況。
If a woman gives birth, if the native is a male and you find the Sun and the Moon and the ascendant in male signs, then the native of his birth escapes what frightens him, and trouble does not strike his mother nor does misfortune. If the native is female and you find the Sun and the Moon in female signs and the ascendant also a female sign, [it happens] similarly; and so speak about the goodness of her giving birth and of her deliverance. 
分娩時，若命主為男性，且太陽，月亮與Asc 皆落陽性星座，則命主即使逢凶也可化吉，而母親在分娩時也會順利無礙。若命主為女性，則上述三點落陰性星座有類似效果。
But if it is contrary to what I say it indicates misery and death, then especially when you find Saturn, [who is] difficult [and] slow, in a cardine [which is] a female sign（＊）because it is more intense for its power with respect to evil and misfortune of birth. 
但若是男嬰，而上述三點落陰性星座，則表示苦難與死亡；尤其是當土星同時落在角宮與陰性星座的時候，土星所徵象的凶險會更加顯著。
＊：如果要嚴格過濾條件，此時土星只能落第七宮，因為asc 也要落陰性星座。
If you find Mars in a cardine, and especially in a female sign, say that the woman will give birth heedless of what is happening, and giving birth will not be unbearable for her because Mars begins to cut, and sometimes [the time] comes upon her in the bath or on the road or like this. 
當火星落在角宮，尤其同時落陰性星座時，表示母親生產過程迅速，而且過程通順，因為火星主宰”切割”；有時候母親會在洗澡時或者路上突然開始分娩。
Look concerning the signs [which are] straight in rising and [which are] crooked. If you find the Moon in [those] crooked in rising（＊1）and in the aspect of the malefics, there is no good for the woman who is wretched in this indication. If you find both malefic [planets] in signs [which are] crooked in rising（＊2）and the Moon in a cardine aspecting them, it indicates injury and misfortune [for] the woman. 
當月亮落在crooked signs ，且跟凶星有相位，則表示母親分娩困難。當兩顆凶星都落在crooked signs 裡面，且月亮落角宮跟他們有相位，表示分娩會造成肉體上的傷痛以及不幸。
＊1：摩羯至雙子。
＊2：星體落在彎曲的星座裡面，便沾染上『彎曲的』特性。

Similarly, if you find the malefic [planets], both of them, in a cardine and the two luminaries, which are the Sun and the Moon, not aspecting the ascendant, this is an indication of evil [for] the woman. 
同樣地，若兩凶星皆落角宮，且太陽與月亮沒有跟Asc 有相位，表示母親會分娩時遭遇凶惡。
猛根：這一句與命主生命力的判斷方向類似；此外，光體跟第一宮aversion ，且凶星落角宮等等結構，也是賤格的徵象。
Chapter 4. Judgment concerning the matter of the upbringing of the native. 
Now I will tell you the matter of the upbringing. Take care that you are not afraid nor interrupt your expectation from the native because you find a malefic for him in a cardine because you desire that the first, second, and third lords of the triplicity of the ascendant aspect. 
If you find one of them in its term and a cardine or in what is equivalent to this from among the places in which they are strong, then this increases his life, if God wishes, and strengthens him. If the three of them are together in strong places, it is best. If two of them are in a strong place, then the strength in their indication is complete, and this is better if the first of them is in a good place. If they are together in one strong place from quartile or trine and one of them aspects the other, this indication is best. If they also aspect one of the two luminaries, this is stronger for them. 
If you find Saturn or Mars or both of them in the ascendant and the lords of the triplicity of the ascendant in places in which they are strengthened and not under the rays of the Sun but coming out in their light, decree for him upbringing. But if you find the lord of the triplicity of the ascendant in a sign of misfortune, either the sixth or the third, make use of the lord of the triplicity of the lot of fortune. If you find it aspecting the lot of fortune or in a good place and aspecting the Sun by day or the Moon by night, it is good. If you find Jupiter in the ascendant or in the triplicity of the ascendant or in what follows the cardine of the ascendant, then he will be brought up. If you find the Moon and Mercury together in the ascendant and Jupiter in the cardine of the earth, it indicates life, if God — He is exalted! — wishes. If you find Saturn and Mercury and Jupiter by day in the cardines, they indicate the goodness of the upbringing. If you find Saturn by day in a cardine and in his own triplicity, he will be brought up, if God wishes. 
Chapter 5. On the superiority of the places. 
Keep what I tell you of the places and the superiority of one of them over another in power. So the best of the places is the ascendant, then the midheaven, then what follows the midheaven, which is the eleventh from the ascendant, then the opposite to this eleventh place from the ascendant, which is the fifth from the ascendant which is called the house of the child, then the opposite to the ascendant, which is the sign of marriage, then the cardine of the earth, then the ninth place from the ascendant. Thus these are seven places which are preferred to the places which are not recognized as good: the third from the ascendant because it is said that it is the place of the joy of the Moon, and the second from the ascendant, then the eighth from the ascendant, which is the sign of death. Of these places which I told you, the first is the strongest. There remain equal to these two places which are the worst of the worst, and they are the sixth and the twelfth. 
第一，第十，第十一，第五，第七，第四，第九宮為吉宮。
Chapter 6. The power of the seven planets. 
Now I will tell you the power of the seven planets. Each planet is benefic when it is in its house or in its triplicity or its exaltation so that what it indicates of good is strong, increasing. A malefic also, if it is in its own place, its evil becomes lighter and decreases. Say how Saturn harms one who is born by day and Mars one who is born at night — then especially if Mars is in a feminine sign and Saturn in a masculine sign. They are better if they are in one of their dignities. The planets, if they are under the rays of the Sun towards the west, their power disappears and they have no power. If it is retrograde in motion, there is difficulty [and] misfortune in the natives and others. 
Chapter 7. The upbringing of natives, and for whom there will be an upbringing or for whom an upbringing will not be known. 
Now I will tell you the matter of natives, and for whom there will be a good upbringing and for whom an upbringing will not be known. 
This is known from what I wrote for you without trouble and without pain. Look concerning this at the seven places [about] which I informed you that they are the strongest of them — the four cardines, the triplicity of the ascendant, and the eleventh place. If the nativity is diurnal and you find diurnal planets in one of these places, he will be brought up. If the nativity is nocturnal and nocturnal planets are in one of these places, it indicates similarly concerning the matter of upbringing. If a benefic is in one of these places, it is beneficial. 
晝生盤，喜見晝生星體落強宮（上述七個宮位）。夜生盤，則以夜生星體。同時也喜見吉星落入這些宮位當中。
If you find a planet (such that there are) fifteen degrees between it and the ascendant, then, even if it is in the second sign from the ascendant, reckon its power as if it were in the ascendant. But if it goes beyond this, it has no strength in the ascendant and it is an indication of those who will have no upbringing（＊1）. If you find the lord of the triplicity of the ascendant eclipsed under the rays of the Sun or in a bad place, this indicates a diminution of life, and especially if with this first lord of the triplicity of the ascendant is also the second. There is no good for the native in the matter of his upbringing if Saturn and Mars strike the Moon, then especially when the Moon is in a cardine and one of the two malefics aspects it from opposition and the degrees of the ascendant from the degree（＊2）. This is the indication of ruin, and retain this. 
若某星落在asc 之後十五度之內，即使該星已經落入第二個星座，還是依然可以算落入第一宮內。但若是超過十五度，則以第二宮計。（這可能可以證明Dorotheus 當時應該也是有使用四分宮位制的，不過同樣也可能是阿拉伯時代對此古籍描述的增減。這用法在Ibn ezra 的占星格言也出現過。Avraham Ibn Ezra 的120 Aphorisms 第29 條。）若asc 的第一個三分星受陽光籠罩或者落在兇宮，則表示困頓不幸，尤其當該顆三分星也落在第二宮的時候。當火土同時刑剋月亮，尤其當月亮落在角宮的時候，且其中一顆兇星與月亮以及asc 準確對衝時，命主早夭。
＊1：在此，第二宮為兇宮。
＊2：月亮落角宮，火土也落角宮。月亮碰asc 會殺，兇星碰asc 也殺，月碰兇星再殺。

If the Moon is in the seventh place from the ascendant free from the benefics and a malefic is in one of the cardines, then the women give birth to what has no escape from ruin. Similarly if the Moon is in the cardine of the earth and Saturn and Mars aspect from opposition or are with it, this is a corrupting indication for the upbringing. If the Moon is as I told you and is in its own triplicity and the benefics aspect the malefics from trine, he is not ruined but he is brought up in another house than his parents' because he is expelled and is brought up in the house of strangers, and sometimes he will be a slave and will be employed and will be miserable. 
當月亮落在第七宮且跟吉星無相位，而其中一顆兇星落在角宮，則命主難免不幸（早夭）。當月亮落在第四宮，土火落在第十宮或者與月亮同宮，命主早夭。但如果此月亮落在自己的trigon 裡面，且有吉星跟兇星三分相，則命主可存活，但會被父母之外的人養大，因為命主會被驅逐（遺棄）且被陌生人養大。有時命主會淪為奴隸且不幸。
養子論。
I will tell you which of them and to whom it happens concerning slavery and that they are cast out. But however it is, if you find the Moon between the two malefics [and] one of the malefics casts its rays upon it, then the livelihood of the native is little. If the Moon with this is decreasing in its light, it indicates fate and shortness of life. 
當月亮被兇星夾，且其中一顆與月亮有相位，則表示命主生計微薄。若此時月亮減光，則表示命主不幸且短命。
If you find a benefic with this it indicates his escape from what I told you, but if it is a malefic ruin. If you find the Moon with a malefic in a cardine or what follows a cardine and benefics aspect it, the native will be brought up but his parents [will cast him out]. If you want to know which of them will desire this, if you find the Sun aspecting the malefics say that his father favours his expulsion and believes in him a belief of misfortune. If you find the Moon injured, his mother favours and desires this. If you find the Moon and the Sun both injured, he departs from his house learning from his parents who they are. If you find Mars by day in a cardine or in what follows a cardine in opposition to the Moon, and the Moon in another than its own house and not its place, or aspecting the Sun similarly, the native is cast out while he is young. Similarly say thus if you find Saturn in a nocturnal nativity aspecting the Sun and the Moon. 
但若有吉星解救月亮，則命主可逃脫不幸。月亮與兇星同落角宮或succedent houses ，且吉星與月亮有相位，命主將會被養大，但命主的父母將會將命主趕出門。若太陽與兇星有相位（刑剋？），則是命主父親的意思；若是月亮被損傷，則是母親的意思。若是光體同時受損，則命主會知道是雙親的意思（？？）晝生盤，火星落角宮或者succedent houses 且與月亮對衝，而月亮此時不在自己具有主宰力的星座裡（house and trigon），或者是該顆火星與太陽對衝，則命主很年輕的時候就會被趕出家門。同樣地，在夜生盤則是注意土星與光體。
If you find one of the two malefics in the ascendant and the other opposite to it and the Moon in the midheaven or in the seventh sign, the native has no upbringing. If you find the Moon in a term of the malefics and a malefic in a cardine and the Moon not aspected by the benefics, there is calamity for him. It does not stop unless they aspect the lord of the triplicity of the Sun in a diurnal nativity and the lord of the triplicity of the Moon in a nocturnal nativity because these two indicate upbringing and other than that because a benefic, if it aspects a malefic, removes its evil. If we do not find for the native one benefic in a cardine and not [in] the sign of fortune and not in the triplicity of the ascendant and the malefics aspect the Sun and the Moon and the conjunction and the fullness [of the Moon], all of this is an evil indication, and this is also a misfortune if it [the Moon] is injured, and worse if the Moon and Venus are both injured as Venus and the Moon indicate the matter of his mother. If it is thus, it indicates injury to his condition and injury to the condition of his mother unless we find a benefic aspecting the ascendant and the Moon as the ascendant indicates the native and the Moon and Venus his mother. 
當兇星落第一宮，另一兇星落第七宮，且月亮在第十宮或者第七宮，命主早夭。當月亮落在兇星的terms 裡，而兇星落角宮，且月亮跟吉星無相位，命主極度不幸。除非吉星與時光主第一個三分星有相位，或者吉星與兇星構成相位，命主方能脫逃於不幸。若是吉星沒有落入上述七個良宮，且兇星跟光體以及SAN 有相位，則表示不幸。
Chapter 8. Knowledge of the masculine and feminine "hours" of the nativity. 
Know the masculine and feminine "hours" as, if the Moon is in a masculine dodecatemorion, he [the native] is masculine. If the Sun and the ascendant and the Moon are in masculine signs, then, even if the "hour" of the nativity is double（＊）[i. e., even], males are born in it. If the Sun is in the ascendant in a masculine sign and the "hour" is double, males are born in it. If the ascendant is a two-bodied sign and is masculine and a masculine planet is in it, then, even if the "hour" of the nativity is double, males are born in it. If you find a masculine planet in the ascendant and another masculine [planet] in the seventh sign and the "hour" is double, males are born in it. If the Moon is in a masculine sign and the Sun also is in a masculine sign and the ascendant is what it is and the lord of the ascendant is Jupiter, similarly males are born. Count the dodecatemoria according to this manner: in a masculine sign two and a half "days" [ i. e., degrees] masculine and two and a half "days" feminine, and in a feminine sign: two and a half "days" feminine and two and a half "days" masculine. 
＊單數陽，雙數陰。這邊的hour 應該是指asc 度數的陰陽性，及masculine or feminine degrees 。
明顯是使用十二分法，而非13H。參見The Thesaurus 第十八章。Anthology 第一冊第十一章。
Chapter 9. The matter of bringing up again. 
Look concerning the matters of bringing up at the lot of fortune and the lot of the demon. If you find the Moon with one of them or aspecting them in trine, this is a good indication in the matter of bringing up, and this is an indicator of the beauty of his face and the perfection of his limbs and the sprouting of his teeth without discomfort. If the Moon is free from these two, say the contrary to what I said. 
若月亮與月亮點或太陽點同宮，或者跟他們有三分相，則表示生命力，且命主面容姣好，體態優美，且長牙不會痛。若月亮跟月亮點或太陽點無交集，則上述相反。
Chapter 10. Knowledge of what indicates whether the native and his mother are slaves or free. 
If you want to know whether the native is a slave or free, look first thing at the Moon. If you find the Moon in the twelfth or in the sixth [place] and the lord of the triplicity of this sign is not in a good place, then the native is a slave. If you find with this the first lord of the triplicity of the Moon or its participant by night and the first and the second lords（＊）of the triplicity of the Sun by day in a good place, this indicates that the native is born from free [parents]（＊父系社會）but according to this his parents are poor（＊妻財）. 論命主是否為奴。首先看向月亮。若月亮落第六或第十二宮，且月亮第一個三分星也落兇宮，則命主為奴。但如果月亮第一個或第二個三分星，或者時光主第一與第二個三分星落吉宮，則表示命主出身非奴，但是父母貧窮。
＊：這邊僅用到第一與第二個三分星。（希臘占星的特色）
If you find the Moon in the degrees of the end of the sign, his mother is bad in descent unless Jupiter 
is with it. If a sign other than his sign is bad, the misery is removed（＊應指木星有力的情況下）. If you find Venus with the Moon in its (Venus') house, it indicates the disappearance of the evil. If you find a malefic in his cardine and you find Mars by day or Saturn by night aspecting the Sun or the Moon without the aspect of Jupiter, the reputation of the free will leave the native and he will be a 
servant. It is worse than this if the Moon is in a feminine sign（＊）, and [even] worse than this if Venus is injured. 
月亮落在星座尾，表示母親出身不良，除非木星跟月亮有相位，當木星有力時，苦痛可以被免除。當月亮與金星同宮且落在金星主宰的星座裡，也具有免除悲難的效果。當兇星落角宮，晝生盤火星與光體有相位，夜生盤土星與光體有相位，而木星沒有介入時，命主為奴，尤其當月亮落陰性星座，更甚是金星也受損的時候。
＊：陰性具有被動，被支配等意涵。
 Look: if you find the Sun and Saturn in the sixth or twelfth or eighth or fourth [place], judge for his father misfortune in his condition. 當太陽跟土星同落第六或第十二宮，或者第八或第四宮，命主父親不幸（病痛等）。
If you find the Sun and the Moon in term[s] of the benefics and [in] the aspect of the lords of their houses, judge goodness in the condition of his parents, and length of their survival and goodness of their house. It is better than this if the Sun or the Moon is lord of the lot of fortune or is in a cardine. 光體落在吉星主宰的terms ，且跟其定位星有相位，表示雙親順遂，長命且生活豐腴，尤其當太陽或月亮為福點定位星，或者落入角宮時更甚。
But if you find the Moon in a cardine or in what follows a cardine [and] supervising it one of the malefics, it will strike him even if he is free. 當月亮落角宮或succedent houses ，且其中一顆兇星落入月亮的第十宮，命主將遭逢不幸，即使命主非奴。
His descent is destroyed if [one] malefic is with the Moon and the other supervises it. Similarly, if you find the Moon when the nativity is nocturnal in the seventh or fourth sign in the aspect of the malefics, judge for him destitution and slavery and difficulty in livelihood. 
當月亮與兇星同宮，而另一顆兇星落月亮第十宮，則命主出身不佳。同樣地，在夜生盤，當月亮落第七宮或第四宮，且跟兇星有相位，表示命主將窮困與被奴役，並且生計困難。
If you find the lot of fortune in the sixth or twelfth [place], this is an indicator of service. If you find the lord of the lot of fortune in the sixth or twelfth [place and] not in its term, it indicates [something] similar to this.
福點落第六或第十二宮，命主為奴。如果福點定位星落第六或第十二，且沒有落在自己主宰的term 裡面，也具有類似效果。If you find the Moon when the nativity is nocturnal in a masculine sign while the ascendant is feminine, or the Sun in a diurnal nativity is in a feminine sign while the ascendant is masculine, the native is like a slave.夜生盤，月亮落陽性星座，asc 落陰性星座；晝生盤，太陽落陰性星座，asc 落陽性星座，則命主為奴。
You want to look at the term[s] of the Sun and the Moon and the ascendant, so that it is known  
whether the lord of the term is masculine or feminine (the feminine planets are Saturn＊, Venus, and the Moon, the masculine ones the Sun, Jupiter, and Mars).注意光體與asc 的terms，以及terms 主宰星的陰陽天性。陰性星體為土星，金星，與月亮。陽性星體為太陽，木星，以及火星。
＊：第一次看到土星被歸類為陰性（夜生）星體，火星被歸類為陽性（晝生）星體。
If you find the Moon with the malefics free from the benefics, it indicates slavery. If you find a malefic in a cardine or Mars is aspecting the Moon while the Moon is coming into conjunction with Saturn or the reverse, it indicates that the native is a slave. 
月亮與兇星同宮，且跟吉星無相位，命主為奴。當月亮被兇星夾，或者月亮出入兇星，命主為奴。
If you find the Moon at the end of a sign and in the aspect of Saturn or Mars, it indicates that the native sometimes is cast out [aborted] and sometimes [his] birth is hard. If Jupiter or Venus aspect the Moon with this, he is born [but] then he grows up in the house of strangers. 
月亮落星座尾，且同時跟土星或火星有相位，表示命主將被驅逐或者遺棄，有時則早夭。如果木星或金星在此跟月亮有相位，命主會被陌生人養大。
If you find the lord of the triplicity of the ascendant cadent and you find the Moon [with] a malefic opposing it and the Sun in an evil place, the native's parents are slaves. 當asc 第一個三分星cadent 且月亮跟兇星對衝，而太陽在兇宮，表示命主雙親為奴。
I command you, concerning the one who is born in a conjunction, to see that you observe the degree of the conjunction so that it is known which is the lord of the triplicity of this sign, and [concerning] one whose nativity occurs in the fullness [of the Moon] so that there is known the lord of the triplicity of the sign in which the fullness occurred. You look at these two signs [and] which [planet] aspects them. If you find the first lord of the triplicity in an evil place and the second（＊）in a good place, these will release him from slavery to manumission. If you find the first lord of the triplicity in a good place and the second in an evil place, say that he is free in the beginning of his age and at the end of his life poverty and contempt and service will come to him. The evil places are the sixth, the twelfth, the eighth, and the third except that the Moon rejoices at its arrival in the third. 注意SAN，以及跟它有相位的星體。如果SAN 第一個三分星落在兇宮，而第二個三分星落吉宮，則命主往後將可倖免為奴。若第一個三分星落吉宮，而第二個三分星落兇宮，則命主早年自由，但之後將淪落為奴。兇宮為第六宮，第十二宮，第八宮，以及第三宮，除了月亮在第三宮有愉悅例外。
＊：著重前兩個三分星。
If you find the first and second lords of the triplicities of the conjunction and the fullness [of the Moon] in an evil place, the one who is born in this does not cease being a slave or a servant from the beginning of his life till the end of his life. If both of them are in a good place, he is free from the beginning of his life till the end of his life. If you find a malefic in the sign of the conjunction or of the fullness [of the Moon] and you find another malefic aspecting it, he will experience his fate and evil will overcome him. 
若SAN 前兩個三分星皆落兇宮，則命主一生難倖免為奴。若皆落吉宮，則命主一生可易自由。若兇星跟SAN 同宮，且另一顆兇星跟SAN 有相位，則命主將遭遇不幸，受困頓籠罩。
If you find the lord of the term of that degree in which the conjunction or the fullness [of the Moon] is in an evil place or in the seventh sign or the fourth from the ascendant, it indicates slavery and poverty. But if a benefic planet is aspecting it and the lord of this term is in a good place when the conjunction or fullness [of the Moon] is in an evil place and [in] the aspect of the malefics, then the father of the native is of noble birth and his mother is bad in her lineage. 當SAN 的term 主宰星落在兇宮，或落在第七宮或第四宮，表示命主為奴與窮困。但若是吉星與該term 主宰星有相位，且該term 主宰星落在吉宮，但SAN 落兇宮且跟兇星有相位，則表示命主父親為顯貴，但母親則出身不佳。
If you find Jupiter in the nativity of a slave in a cardine in any sign except Capricorn, [whether] you find it with malefics or with benefics, it indicates his manumission and escape from slavery. 
在奴隸的命盤中，當木星落角宮（除非木星落摩羯），不論此時木星是否與兇星或吉星有相位，表示命主可自奴役中解放。
If Jupiter aspects the Moon from wherever it aspects or is uninjured, the pains of slavery are completely loosened for him. 
當木星與月亮有相位，且沒有受傷，表示命主可自奴役中逃脫。
If in the birth of a slave Venus is in a cardine without the aspect of the malefics, this is an indicator of manumission. 奴隸的命盤中，金星落角宮，且沒有跟兇星發生相位，命主可得解放。
If you find Venus also with the Moon in the seventh [place], it informs [you] about his escape from slavery. 
金星月亮同落第七宮，命主可自奴役中解放。
If you find the Sun and Mercury and the Moon in cardines or you find the Sun and the Moon in one [and the same] triplicity, they indicate manumission. 太陽，水星與月亮皆落角宮，或者日月三分相，表示命主可自奴役中解放。
If you find the Moon in Taurus or in Cancer when they are cardines, without the aspect of the malefics or in the aspect of the malefics and the benefics together, he is freed from slavery. 
月亮落金牛或巨蟹且落角宮，沒有跟兇星有相位，或者同時跟吉凶星有相位，命主可自奴役中解放。
He who is born when Jupiter is with the lot of fortune or in quartile from it, the misery of slavery will depart from him. But if Jupiter aspects the lot of fortune and they are both in evil places, this indicates that he will be manumitted but he will not escape from servitude which is like slavery. 木星與福點同宮，或者跟福點四分相，命主可自奴役中解放。但如果木星跟福點有相位，而他們皆落在兇宮，則表示命主雖然可得自由解放，但仍然避免不了勞役困頓。
He who is born while Jupiter is in the eighth sign from the ascendant or the second, as for him it indicates what is like slavery（＊）. If it is in the sixth or twelfth, it is more evil and worse. 木星落在第八宮或第二宮，徵象奴役。若落在第六或第八則更糟。
＊：根據第五章，第二宮並沒有被歸類為兇宮。不過在此則的歸類則更貼近一般希臘占星的吉凶宮定位。
Chapter 11. The knowledge of how many will own the native if he is a slave. 
If you wish to know how many will own the native if he is a slave, look in the day-time from the Sun to the lord of the triplicity of the lot of fortune, then [at] whatever of the planets is between these two, and count these planets as rulers. If the nativity is nocturnal, [look] from the Moon to the lot of fortune, then [at] whatever of the planets is between these two, and then the number of these is ruling. Look, and if you find the Moon above the earth, then you count what is between the sign of slaves, which is the sixth place, to the twelfth place, and then whatever of the planets is between these two, that is the ruling number. If the Moon is under the earth, then mark off from the twelfth sign to the sixth [and proceed] as I told you. Whatever planet you find in a sign having two bodies, double it. If you wish to know how many will own his father, then mark off from the Sun to the lord of its [the Sun's] triplicity, and whatever of the planets is between these two, that is the number which will own him. Mark off from the Moon to the lord of the triplicity of the Moon for his mother. 
論命主為奴，擁有命主的主人數。晝生盤，注意太陽與福點第一個三分星之間的星體數。夜生盤，注意月亮與福點之間的星體數。若月亮落在地平面上，則計算自第六宮奴僕宮到第十二宮之間的星體數。若月亮落在地平面下，則計算自第十二宮到第六宮之間的星體數。當星體落在雙體星座時，則以雙倍計算。若想知道有多少人擁有命主父親，則計算太陽與太陽第一個三分星之間的星體數。擁有命主母親的主人數則注意月亮與月亮第一個三分星之間的星體數。
Chapter 12. Consideration concerning the upbringing of the native, his condition, and his livelihood. 
It is necessary also to look at the sign which the Moon enters on the third day from the birth of the native as you will know this from the place [of the Moon] and the lord of [its] exaltation and which [planet] is associated with it and from its lord and from [the planet] aspecting it. It indicates the native because, if benefics aspect this sign, it indicates first thing the goodness of [his] upbringing and [his] good fortune. If it is evil and malefics aspect it, it indicates his misery. Look also at the lord of the house of the Moon on the third day, and mark it off, but if you find it in a good place shining in its light or benefics aspecting it, then the native is middling in condition and livelihood, and he is in this neither happy nor destitute. If it is different, then this is misery. 注意出生後第三天月亮座落的星座，以及其定位星與exaltation ruler 以及跟他們有相位的星體。如果吉星跟該星座有相位，則帶給命主豐腴以及生命力。若該星座為兇宮且兇星跟該星座有相位，則表示困頓不幸。但如果該星座的定位星落宮良好，增光，或者跟吉星有相位，則可減輕一些困頓不幸。但若是該定位星狀態不良，則命主確定不幸困頓。
If you find the dodecatemorion of the Moon with malefics or they aspect it, then this is an indication of misfortune for the native. 
當月亮的十二分相與兇星同宮，或者兇星跟它有相位，代表不幸。
If you find the Moon void of all the planets, [and] none of them aspects it, and none is in the ascendant or aspecting the ascendant, then this native is void of good in livelihood, possesses pain and hardship in the pursuit of what he needs. 
If you find the Moon increasing and Mars aspecting it from opposition or quartile or [Mars] is with it, or [if] it [the Moon] is decreasing and Saturn is aspecting it, then there is no good for him in [his] livelihood. 
If the Moon is increasing in the direction of North, he attains good at the end of his life, and if it is cutting from the direction of the South to the direction of the North and is ascending, then he attains good at the beginning of his life and at its end. Know that the Moon is best of all if it is increasing, rising in the sphere of heaven toward the North. This is an indication of prosperity and manly virtue for the native. 
Look at the tenth place from the Moon; if you find a benefic in it, it indicates splendor and good for the native, but if a malefic is there, a diminution of this and injury. If the Moon is injured and Saturn is in the tenth from it, it indicates misery and misfortune. If the malefic is in other than its house and its place is not on this side(*out of sect?), this is an indication of great harm, but if a benefic is in the tenth from the Moon in its own place, then this native attains wealth and gains in right and honesty. 
If you wish to consider the parents of the native, look for his father from the Sun and the lord of its triplicity because from these planet[s] are known the lineage of his father and his livelihood [respectively]. 參閱abu ali al-khayyat 第十六章。Liber Hermetis 第十九章。
If you find the lord of the triplicity (* 應指太陽的三分星), [whether] benefic or malefic, in a good place, and the Sun also strong in its place, then this is an indicator of wealth and praise and fame for his father. If the Sun is in the terms of the benefics, then it is better, and it indicates with this that the native will inherit (* 基因或者出身等等) this from his father. 
But if you find with the lord of the triplicity a malefic(* 這裡應指落兇宮), it indicates a decrease in the property of his father and injuries and calamity. 
If you find the Sun and the lord of its triplicity in bad place[s], then this indicates that his father is not noble and poverty and necessity have overtaken him. 
If you find the Sun in a good place and the lord of its triplicity cadent, then this indicates that his father is noble, but he will not keep his property and his honour because the Sun's indication is thus. If you find with this the Sun in the terms of malefics, say that his father has no splendour because [this is] an indication of service for him. If with this the malefic aspects the Sun, you will find illness, putrefaction in his father. If with this you find the Sun in a bad place and the lord of its triplicity in a good place, then say that the father of this native increases the good, and they are elevated afterwards over those whom they meet of equal position. If you find the first lord of the triplicity of the Sun in a strong place and the second is in a bad place, then his father at the beginning of his birth attains goodness of condition, but this does not persist till the end, and if it is the opposite(*), then reverse it. 太陽與太陽（第一個）三分星的用法。配合Terms 。
Look concerning the matter of his mother from the Moon and, in lineage, from its place and its term and its right side and its left side and from its place in the South and its position relative to the ascending node and the descending node because, if you find it descending toward the South or in an eclipse or in [its] dejection or in the terms of the malefics, then all of this is bad for his mother, then especially if the malefics aspect it. If you find the Moon in the term[s] of the benefics descending toward the South or in a constellation with what I told you of its malefic or its dejection, then his mother is noble, but ignominy and disdain and humiliation have struck her. 
If you find the Moon in the cardine under the earth, then a chronic illness will strike his mother or his mother will be harmed in [her] reputation. And especially if the Moon is in the cardine of the West or in the cardine under the earth in the term[s] of the malefics and the lord of its house is cadent, then the livelihood of his mother is in slavery. If you find the Moon in a cardine and it is in quartile of Saturn or Mars or [in] opposition to these two or conjoining with them, then his mother will die a terrible death. 
If you find the Sun, and the lord of its triplicity is in a bad place, [its] dejection, in other than its [the Sun's] sign, then it indicates death in a terrible place for his father. If with this the malefics aspect it from quartile or opposition or are with it, all the property of his father and his mother (* 父系社會) will be squandered. 
If [the nativity] is in the daytime and the Moon and the lords of its triplicity are in a bad place while the Sun and the lords of its triplicity are in a good place, then this is something with respect to his mother and her end, and similarly in a nocturnal nativity. 
If the Sun is in the place of the Moon, it indicates the father in a diurnal nativity. 
If you find the Sun and the lord of the triplicity of the Sun in a cadent sign in a bad position, then judge for the native and his father affliction and misery, and [that] sometimes his father will desire his expulsion and his ousting from his house, and his nursing will not reach weaning at the whim of his father till the time he is cut off, because in a diurnal nativity the Sun and the lords of its triplicity indicate the father, and the Moon and the lords of its triplicity [indicate] the matter of the native and of the mother. If you find the Moon and the lords of its triplicity in a nocturnal nativity in a bad place, then it indicates misfortune in the condition of the mother and the native, and so on. 
Say in a diurnal nativity that the Sun and the lords of its triplicity indicate the matter of his father and his end, and so the Moon in a diurnal nativity indicates the matter of his mother. 
If you find the Sun and the Moon and the lords of its [the Sun's] triplicity in a bad place, then judge for these two together what is mightier than he has strength for of misery, and little livelihood, and with this that the native will not be brought up, but will be harmed by his parents, but if you find one of the benefics in a cardine, this misery is withheld from him until a rotation of that planet which is in his cardine has passed（＊）. 
＊：短命盤，當有吉星落角宮，至少可以保護命主該星least years 的年數。
If you find the Sun shining in a good place and the aspect of the malefics while the benefics aspect, this indicates his father's doubling in what there is in him of property and wealth, but it indicates also the diminution of the property of the native. If you find the Moon thus, say [the same] about the matter of his mother. It is worse than this if the lord of the cardine, the fourth, is injured because it is the indicator of the matter of the parents. 
If you find the Sun in a cadent and the malefics aspect, it indicates the slavery of his father, and if the Moon is thus it indicates the slavery of his mother and their poverty and their need for nourishment day by day. If with this you find the lord of the ascendant cadent like this, then the native is not brought up out of misery and expulsion because he is a slave or a pauper or one in need of nourishment. 
Chapter 13. Knowledge of the lot of the father. 
Do not leave aside the consideration concerning the lot of fathers and so on. Calculate it by day from the degree of the Sun to the degree in which Saturn is, and by night from Saturn to the Sun, and add to it the degrees of the ascendant [by day] and subtract it from the ascendant [by night] thirty [degrees at a time], and look where its lord is situated. If you find its lord in a good place, it indicates the good of his father, and the condition of his father is known by means of the fate of its [the lord's] location. Prevent that it be the sixth or the eighth or the third or the twelfth as these four places are bad. From it [the lord] is also known the character of the father. If you find Saturn under the rays of the Sun, then mark off the lot of the father from Mars to Jupiter, and add to it the degrees of the ascendant [by day] or subtract it as you subtracted previously; then [you find] the lot of the father. 
Look from the lord of the sign in which the lot of the father is, and if you find it aspecting the lot or you find the lord of the lot in what follows its own house, or [if] the lord of the sign opposite the sign of the lot is aspecting the lot, then the native is summoned to [someone] other than his father.（＊）
父親點：
• [Day] Lot = Ascendant + Saturn – Sun 
• [Night] Lot = Ascendant + Sun – Saturn 

當土星受陽光籠罩時：Lot = Ascendant + Jupiter – Mars 
＊：養子論。參閱anthology 第三十二章。Liber Hermetis 第一冊第十九章。
Chapter 14. The lot of the mother. 
Calculate the lot of the mother in a nocturnal birth from the Moon to Venus and in the daytime from Venus to the Moon, and add to it the degrees of the ascendant [by night] or subtract [it] from the ascendant [by day] thirty [degrees at a time]; wherever it ends, there is the lot of the mother. 
母親點：
[Day] Lot = Ascendant + Moon – Venus [Night] Lot = Ascendant + Venus – Moon 
If you find the Sun and the Moon in tropical signs, and the ascendant is a tropical sign, then the parents of this native are not from one race, and especially if the malefics aspect them or are with them or in quartile of them or in opposition. It is also thus if you find one of the two luminaries not aspecting the other and not aspecting the ascendant, or [if] one of the two is under the earth and the other above the earth with the malefics, or [if] the ascendant is a tropical sign in which there are more planets than one, and especially if these planets are malefic and one of the two luminaries is with them, as it is an indicator that his parents are not from one race. 
論混血兒（父母之一為外國人）。參閱abu ali al-khayyat 第十六章。Liber Hermetis 第一冊第二十章。
If you find the Sun in the seventh sign, it indicates the separation of his parents, one of the two from his companion. If with this it [the Sun] is in the term[s] of the malefics, it indicates the squandering of his father's property. If you find the Moon in this position, then say [something] like this concerning his mother. If you find Mars and Saturn with the Sun or in quartile to it [the Sun] or opposition without the aspect of the benefics, it indicates the squandering of his father's property and its dispersal. If you find the Moon in this position which I described, this is concerning his mother, and his parents are separated, one of the two from his companion, in the youth of the native, in life or [in] death, so that he is not about by mistake to become an orphan — and sometimes he is a needy orphan. If you find Saturn in a cardine (and this is worst if it is in the cardine [which is] the seventh) without the aspect of Jupiter, while Jupiter is cadent, then this indicates the separation of his parents. Say similarly if you find Mars in a cardine without Venus. If you find one of the two luminaries cadent from the sign of the West [and] the other opposes it from the twelfth, then this also is an indicator of the separation of his parents. 
If you find both luminaries in one of the two places which I mentioned, and the two of them are together in one place and the conjunction is in it, then it is an indicator of the separation of his parents. Similarly it indicates the separation of his parents if you find the lot of the father and [that] of the mother together in one place. The aspect of the malefics also indicates separation from his parents. Similarly [does it happen] also in a nativity in which one of the two luminaries does not aspect the other or the ascendant. If you find the two lots, each one of them, in a sign at its term[s], and the malefics are also injuring them from the sign, then this is an indicator of the destruction of what is between the parents. 
Look at the cardine, the fourth. If you find Venus and the Moon aspecting the cardine, the fourth, then predict regarding his mother an increase of good and a goodness of condition. If you find the Sun and Jupiter and Saturn are opposite the house of the father, it indicates praise of the father and the goodness of his condition. If they aspect together, then judge for his two parents together good fortune and wealth and fame. If you find I Mars and Saturn aspecting the cardine, the fourth, in opposition to it or in quartile or [if] they are in it without the benefics, then predict concerning his parents misfortune and misery and slavery. If the position of the Moon is in the cardine, the fourth, then predict regarding his mother the aggregate of this evil, but if the position of the Sun [is in it], then regarding his father. 
第四宮相關。參閱abu ali al-khayyat 第十六章。Liber Hermetis 第一冊第二十一章。
Chapter 15. Knowledge of the death of the parents of the native, one of the two before his companion. 
If you wish to know which of his parents will die before his companion, then look at the lots of these two; that in which the malefics are or which they aspect from opposition or quartile, that is the one who will die first. 
If you find Mars in quartile to the Sun on the left side, then say that his father will die before his mother so that she will become a widow. If you find Mars in the second sign from the Sun. then similarly [will it happen]; say also: if you find the Sun in quartile with a malefic or in opposition to a strong malefic, then his father is dead. If you find the Moon approximately as I told you about the Sun, then predict concerning his mother in the way you predicted concerning the father. 
If you find the malefics aspecting both of the lots but [the two lots] not aspecting any of them [the malefics], then look after this at the two luminaries, which of them more quickly will enter the cardine under the earth — not by the proper motion of the stars, but [by] the rotation of the sphere. If you find [that] the Sun will precede [the Moon] to that place, then his father will die first; but if the Moon is quicker to that place, then the mother [will]. 
If you find the two luminaries, both of them, injured from opposition or quartile, then look from the conjunction or the fullness [of the Moon] as this will indicate to you whatever of that you wish. 
If you find the Sun under the earth and the malefics aspect the ascendant. then his father will die first. If the Moon is in this position. then the mother [will die first]. Look also at the conjunction of the Moon. 
If you find Saturn in opposition to Mars or [if] you find Mars in right quartile from Saturn, then this is an indicator of the destruction of his father's property. As for the time of death of these two, that is made clear from the lot. If Saturn transits that lot and Jupiter is in a cardine, then predict thereupon [that] the native will inherit his father's wealth at his [the father's] death. If Saturn and Mars transit the sign in which the two luminaries are, then it indicates the death of them both. 
Chapter 16. Knowledge of whether the native will inherit his parents’ property or not. 
If you wish to know whether or not his father's property will reach him, look at his father's property from the Sun and Saturn by day. 
If you find them both in a place good in luck for them, then this is an indicator that his father's property will reach him and of [his] holding on to it. If Mars does not aspect from quartile and is not with the Sun, you will succeed [when you predict thus] because Mars is an indicator of the squandering of property. But if you find the benefics aspecting the Sun and Saturn or the Sun alone, then he will inherit his father's property and will hold on to it. But if this is reversed, and you find Mars in a cardine, and especially by day if Saturn is not in his dejection, then he will waste the property of his father during his father's lifetime and after his death. If you also find the Sun in the sixth or the twelfth, then similarly it indicates the loss of his father's property. If with this Jupiter aspects, the grief which strikes him because of the property will be diminished. 
Look concerting the mother's property from Venus and the Moon mid from their lords because if these two are in the West in a bad place and the Sun also is in a cadent, and [its] rays do not relieve these two nor the bad place, then predict that the native is from poor [and] needy [parents] and [that he himself] is needy. If you find the lord of the lot of the father in a bad place and a malefic aspects from the fourth or the seventh, then his father will die a terrible death. If you rind the lord of the lot of the father in a bad place while the lord of the Sun and the Sun are not aspecting the ascendant, this indicates a terrible death for his father. 
If you find Jupiter overcoming Saturn, it indicates miseries of the father because of his son. If you find Saturn in opposition to Jupiter, it indicates misery and misfortune in what is between son and father. But if you find Saturn in the triplicity of Jupiter, it indicates the love of son and father and with this the seeking of affection, and that the son will inherit the property of his father. 
Chapter 17. Knowledge of how many will be born to the mother of the native. 
If you wish to know how many will be born to his mother before she bears [them], then look at the ascendant and at the lord[s] of its triplicity, and consider which lord of its triplicity is the stronger. 
論同母所生的兄弟數。觀察asc 前兩個三分主星，哪一顆較強盛。
If you find the stronger of these two in the ascendant, then say that this child is the first, if you find it in midheaven, then say he is the fourth or the first, and if you find it in the seventh, then say he is the seventh or the first because the cardines indicate the beginning. 
較強旺的一顆若是落在第一宮，表示命主為第一個子嗣。若是落在第十宮，則表示命主為第四個或者第一個子嗣。若是落在第七宮，則表示第七個或者第一個。角宮徵象初始。
If [the two lords] are in cadents, then sometimes nothing is allotted. 若這兩個三分星皆cadent ，有時候則表示沒有兄弟姊妹。
If [the two lords] are in the vicinity of the left side from the ascendant under the earth, then mark off from it to the ascendant, and from it, it will be clear to you how many were born before him. If you find a malefic between this [and the ascendant], then say that he is a miscarried fetus or one having a [birth]mark or a defect. If you find a benefic [there], then say that there will be more than that number which you predicted if that benefic is direct in [its] motion [and] is brilliant in its light. 
若這兩顆三分星落在地平面下，則從（較強旺的）該顆算起至asc，則可知命主的『兄姐』數。若是有兇星落在該三分星與asc 之間，則表示該兄姐為流產兒或者有胎記或殘障。若該三分星與asc 之間有吉星，則表示命主的兄姐（弟妹）數會比預計的更多，尤其當該吉星順行且增光的時候。
If you find the lord of the triplicity above the earth, then count from the ascendant to it, and the rest of the consideration is as I wrote for you; he who considers [correctly] is a master. 如果該三分星落在地平面上，則從asc 算起至該顆三分星。其餘的判斷如上所述。
If you don't find a malefic or a benefic in what is between the ascendant and the midheaven, say that this [native] is the first-born, but if he is not the first-born, then the one who is before him will not be counted and there is no good in him, [but he is] a miscarried fetus or [something] like that, or it indicates the death of the one who is before him. 
當mc 與asc 之間沒有落入星體時，命主為頭胎；若命主非頭胎，則表示命主兄姐為流產兒或者類似的狀況，徵象命主兄姐的死亡。
If you find a malefic in what is between that [ascendant and midheaven], then say that there is no use in him who is before him, and he will die. 當asc 與mc 之間落入兇星時，命主的兄姐會先死。
Look from the ascendant to the cardine under the earth; if you find a planet in what is between that [ascendant and cardine], then say that a child will be born to his mother. If that planet is a malefic, it indicates the death of him who is after him [the native]. If you then find nothing, then say that there is none who is [born] from his mother after him. 當asc 與ic 之間有落入星體時，則表示命主有弟妹。若該星為兇星，表示命主弟妹會先死。若asc 與ic 之間沒有落入星體，則表示命主沒有弟妹。
Chapter 18. On the matter of brothers. 
I am showing you the matter of brothers: know that he for whom the Moon is in Leo or Sagittarius or whose ascendant is one of these two signs will have few brothers. 
月亮落在獅子或射手，或者asc 落在這兩個星座時，命主少有兄弟姊妹。
If you find Mercury in a term of Mars aspecting the Moon or the ascendant, then this is harmful to the brothers. 水星落在火星term 且跟月亮或者asc 有相位時，損傷命主兄弟。Whoever has Scorpio or Cancer or Pisces for his ascendant, know that his mother will bear numerous children. 
上升落水相星座，命主母親子女數眾多。
Chapter 19. The lot of brothers. 
If you wish to compute the lot of brothers, count from the degree of Saturn to Jupiter and add to it the degrees of the ascendant [by day] and subtract it from the ascendant [by night]; wherever it comes to, then [there is] the lot of brothers. 
兄弟點：
• [Day] Lot = Ascendant + Jupiter -Saturn 
• [Night] Lot = Ascendant + Saturn -Jupiter 參見anthology 第二冊第四十章。
If you find a planet in it or aspecting it, then from this the matter of brothers will be made clear to you. 注意與兄弟點有相位的星體。
If the lot happens to be in a sterile sign, then there is no good in his brothers (sterile are Leo, Virgo, Capricorn. and Aquarius, while great in number are Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces because some of them are signs of water and the rest of them keep the middle). 
兄弟點落在貧瘠星座，表示命主兄弟無助力。貧瘠星座：獅子，處女，摩羯，以及水瓶座。豐產星座：水相星座。
If you find Jupiter and Venus aspecting the lot of brothers, then it is a good indication in the matter of brothers. If they aspect from quartile, then according to that they are beneficial. 
兄弟點與木金有相位，表示兄弟有助益。最好是吉星與兄弟點四分相。
If you find Mars and Saturn aspecting the lot from quartile or opposition, then this will injure the brothers and diminish them, and sometimes their death will be seen. But if the malefics aspect from trine, then there is no great calamity for them. 兄弟點與兇星四分相或者對衝，命主兄弟有損，有時表示兄弟的死亡。若是兇星與兄弟點的三分相，則狀況減輕些。
Chapter 20. Knowledge of the love of the brothers. 
If you wish to know what of love and other than that there is between him [the native] and his brothers, then look from the lord of the lot of brothers. 
論命主與兄弟間的感情。看向兄弟點定位星。
If its lord aspects it from trine, it indicates love between them, and if it aspects from quartile, it indicates a medium amount of that love. If you find it in opposition to the lot, then it is an indicator of enmity and separation. If it [the lord] does not aspect it [the lot], it indicates the estrangement of one of them from the other. 
若兄弟點定位星跟兄弟點成三分相，表示命主與兄弟間有愛。若是四分相，則次之。若是對衝，則表示恨意或者兄弟分離。若是沒有相位，則表示命主與兄弟間感情疏離。
Chapter 21. Knowledge of the number of brothers and sisters. 
Count from the degree in which Mercury is to Jupiter, and add to it the degrees of the ascendant [by day] or subtract it from the ascendant thirty [degrees at a time] [by night]. Whenever the counting comes to an end, look at the number of planets which aspect that place, and in their number will he have brothers. 
兄弟數量點：[Day]：ASC ＋Jupiter － Mercury [Night]：ASC ＋ Mercury －Jupiter 注意與該點發生相位的星體數，則為命主兄弟數。
Whenever Venus and Mercury aspect [that place] from a good place, then if the sign is feminine they are feminine, but if the sign is masculine they are masculine. If one of these two is in a masculine sign and the other in a feminine sign, then the brothers are feminine and masculine. If those planets which aspect the lot are in bad places, then it indicates [that] the brothers [have] no good in them or have sicknesses, or [that] there is enmity between them, and bad and evil [are their] opinion and thought [of each other]. 
If you find Saturn and Mars and the Moon and the Sun in houses not their own, then they indicate the loss of the brothers. If you find some of them in their house or their own places, then he has brothers who do not love him and are not his friends or who have no use for him because what the malefics indicate is not complete. 
Look from the third sign from the ascendant about the matter of brothers. If you find it [a sign] having two bodies, or its lord is in a sign having two bodies, then it indicates [that] the brothers are mixed [in their parentage], sons of concubines, [born] from his father and his mother and others than them. 
注意第三宮。當第三宮為雙體星座，或者其定位星落在雙體星座，表示命主有同父異母或同母異父的兄弟姊妹。
Look in the matter of brothers as I told you: Saturn and the Sun indicate older brothers. Jupiter and Mars indicate middling ones, Mercury younger ones, the Moon older sisters, and Venus younger sisters. 
土星與太陽徵象兄長。木星與火星次之。水星徵象幼弟。月亮徵象長姐。金星徵象妹妹。
Look in the matter of brothers from Mars. If you find the first and second lords of the triplicity of Mars in a bad place, it indicates a small number of brothers. If you find one of the two in a good place and the other in a bad place, then he has brothers, but it is inevitable that he will see their death. 
注意火星。當火星第一個與第二個落兇宮，表命主手足稀少。若其一落吉宮，另一落兇宮，則表示命主有兄弟，但會比命主先死。

It is the nativity of a man when midheaven is Taurus, in which are the Sun, the Moon, Saturn. Mercury and the lot of brothers, and Mars is in Gemini, Jupiter is in Aquarius, and its ascendant is Leo. 
The indicator[s] of the matter of brothers are Saturn and Mercury because they are the lords of the triplicity of Mars. Because they both happen to be above the earth you count from them to the ascendant（＊）, but if they were below the earth you would count from the ascendant to them. 命盤兄弟的指標為土星與水星，因為他們為火星的三分星。土星水星落地平面上，因此從他們開始算起至asc。若是他們落在地平面下，則從asc 開始算起至三分星。
＊：跟上面第十七章的相關記載完全相反。另參見Liber Hermetis 第三十章，其計算方式與此命例吻合。
Thereupon you predict that the native will have five brothers because from Taurus, in which are the two lords of Mars' triplicity. to Leo, which is the ascendant, are three signs and [one] sign having two bodies; so this [makes] five. 
因此命主有五個兄弟姊妹。火星的前兩個三分星皆落入金牛，至asc 座落的獅子座共有三個星座，而其中一個星座為雙體星座，所以總共五個。
But if you did not find both of them in one sign, it would be necessary for you to separate them. Whichever of the two is eastern and in a strong place, count [from it]; but if both of them are in the same strength, then the first is the better, and so on. 若這兩個三分星沒有同宮，則以較oriental 及較為強旺的該顆開始算起。若這兩個三分星力道相同，則以第一個三分星為主。
Predict to whoever asks you about the like of this nativity which mentioned to you: the lot of brothers is in midheaven, and because the sign is feminine and Saturn is in it his sister will die, and because the Sun [is in it] then also because of this a brother who is older than he will die, and because Mercury is there another who is the youngest of them will die, but what is equal to this [i. e. its full effect] will be rejected because Jupiter aspects this place. 
There are some experts who consider in a diurnal nativity how many planets are above the earth, in a nocturnal how many below the earth, then in accordance with that number they predict the [number of] brothers. 
有其他專家則是計算晝生盤，有多少星體落地平面上。夜生盤則有多少星體落地平面下。
If Jupiter aspects the Moon from right trine and the lot of brothers is with Jupiter, then it indicates that he has brothers older than he is. If you find the Sun aspecting the Moon in [a case] like this, then it indicates brothers who are older than he is. 
木星落月亮第九宮且跟木星跟兄弟點同宮，命主有兄長。木星換成太陽也一樣。
If you find Mercury in the ascendant, then predict that he has no brothers older than he is, and if there were, they are dead. 
水星落第一宮，表示命主無兄長。若有，則先命主死。
If you find the Moon leaving Saturn, especially by night, then predict that he will have no benefit from his brothers who are before him because they will die, but a reputation of eminence will remain for them. 
月亮出相位土星，尤其在夜生盤，表示命主難得兄長助力，因為兄長會先死，但兄長死後名聲仍顯。
If the Moon leaves Mars, it indicates [something] like this. 
月亮出相位火星（應該有特別針對晝生盤），效果類似月亮出相位土星。
If it leaves Venus, then he has a sister older than he is, and he will love the acts of Venus, and in old age he will be better with respect to his property and his medical treatment than he was in his youth. 
月亮出相位金星，命主有姊姊，且命主喜歡性交。越老越順，不論是在金錢上或健康上。
If the Moon leaves Mercury, then this native is not older than his brothers, and he is gentle, integral in mind and character for things, and he will be praised concerning this. Look also with this at the varieties of signs as the actualization of this will be made clear to you in them. 月亮出相位水星，命主有兄長（應該是弟弟見abu ali ）。且溫和，心智健全，並因此受稱讚。注意上述結構發生的星座位置。
If you find the Sun in the ascendant, then there is no good in this with respect to brothers. 
太陽落第一宮，表示命主兄弟有損。
If you find Mars and Saturn in the ascendant or midheaven or either what follows the ascendant or [what follows] the tenth, then this is the worst thing in the matter of brothers as sometimes he will see concerning them [things] like this: he will have no brothers, or whatever of them he does have will not survive or will be enemies, each one of them to his companion. 
火星與土星落在第一宮或第十宮，或者第十一宮，則嚴重損傷命主兄弟，可以表示命主兄弟會先死或沒有兄弟，或者兄弟彼此為仇人。
If you find Mars in the twelfth or in the cardine under the earth or in the cardine, the seventh [place], then there is no good in the matter of brothers, especially if you find the lord of the ascendant or the lord of the Moon with Mars or Mars aspecting Mercury. It is worse than this if Mars in a nativity like this is the lord of the ascendant or of the Moon as this indicates the enmity of some of the brothers to others. 火星落第十二宮或第四宮，或者第七宮，則有損兄弟，尤其當asc 定位星或月亮定位星跟火星有相位，或火星跟水星有相位時。更糟的是，當火星落在這些宮位，且火星為asc 定位星或月亮定位星時，則表示命主兄弟間互相仇視。
But if Mars is in the place of Mercury or aspects it, then a quarrel will occur between the brothers until they bequeath this terrible quarrel [to their heirs] and it will come to be a momentous affair, especially if Mars aspects the Moon or Mars aspects the lot of brothers. 
火星落水星主宰的星座或跟水星有相位，命主與兄弟間將有重大口角，直到他們將這爭執留給下一代，並因此變成『大事』，尤其當火星跟月亮有相位，或火星跟兄弟點有相位時。
If you wish to know what benefit will be his from brothers or what loss will be his from them, then look at the lot of fortune. If you find the lot of fortune and the lot of brothers together, then he will benefit from his brothers and, if they die, he will inherit their properties. If you also find the lord of the lot of fortune with the lot of brothers or the lord of the lot of brothers [at the same time] the lord of the third from the ascendant [and] with the lot of fortune, then similarly it indicates benefit from them. 
論來自兄弟的損益。注意福點。若福點與兄弟點同宮，則兄弟對命主有所助益。若命主兄弟死亡，則命主會繼承兄弟的遺產。若福點定位星跟兄弟點同宮，或者同時跟兄弟點定位星，或者第三宮主星跟福點同宮，也有類似效果。
Look concerning one who will see the death of his brothers, look at these two lots, and count from the degree of the lot to the degree to which Saturn casts its rays in quartile or opposition or presence, as according to this the native will see the death of his brother, especially if Mars aspects or is stationary in this place. If it is stationary, then it is a calamity, and worse than this if Jupiter does not aspect. 
論兄弟是否先死。看向福點與兄弟點。（此段應該是說明推移兄弟點碰土星。）
If Saturn and Mars in the place of the lot aspect Mercury, it indicates the death of his younger brothers, but if it is Venus [that they aspect], then females [i. e.. sisters]; all this is according to this manner. 
當土星與火星跟兄弟點同宮且跟水星有相位，表示命主弟弟會死；若是跟金星有相位，則姊妹會死。
Chapter 22. Knowledge of the matter of the fortune of the native and [his] property and his illness（＊）. 
＊：以時主光體的三分星為論斷主軸，生命力強旺與財富強度息息相關。
Look concerning the matter of fortune and property and what is the utmost limit of this fortune and its stages in rising up. If the nativity is diurnal then look at the Sun and the lords of its triplicity, if it is nocturnal then look at the Moon and the lords of its triplicity. 
If you find the first and second lords of the triplicity, both of them together or each one of them separately, in a good place, then his condition will not cease from the beginning of his age to the end of his life to be in excellence and elevation and wealth. 
If you find the first lord of the triplicity in a good place and the second in a bad place, then his condition will be better in the beginning of his age, but will degenerate at the end of his life. 
If you find the first in a bad place and the second in a good place, then it indicates middling good in his life, but this will not last in him so that it will abate. 
But if the second lord of the triplicity is under the earth or in a bad place and the first is in a good place, then some misfortunes reach him and he does not have every desire, but some forbearance against calamity and grief and loss in livelihood is inevitably his. 
If you find both of these [lords] in cadents in it [the nativity], then this will not cease being in misery and poverty, especially if the malefics aspect these two from quartile or opposition and the malefics are in cardines（＊）; whoever is thus will not find bread to fill his belly or clothes in which to clothe himself. 
＊：如果兩個三分星都cadent，又要兇星跟他們四分相或對衝且同時落角宮，勢必配合四分宮位制方能成局；但若不逐字文意，在此則可能在強調兇星於命盤生命力的整體阻礙。
If you find the lord of the triplicity under the rays of the Sun and in the place of Saturn, then whatever of good it indicates is not stable, and his property will not increase, and he will be more learned in meditation than he is in work. 
三分星體受陽光籠罩且同時落土星主宰的位置（魔羯水瓶），則表示命主財富無法穩定且難以增加，命主也會對冥思玄學較感興趣而怠工作。
Chapter 23. Knowledge of the division of the planets with regard to good and evil. 
星體落角宮，其所主宰的最小年限對於吉凶的影響。不確定此年限是否從出生當刻開始算起。
以下可推知若要兇星落角宮減免兇厄，兇星需要進一步有條件限制。
If you find Jupiter in a bad nativity in a cardine, then it will drive off the evil for twelve years, but if it 
is in what follows a cardine, then it will obstruct the calamity until it（＊）reaches a sign in which Jupiter indicates calamity. 木星落角宮，其最小年限十二年可免兇厄。但若木星落在succedent houses ，則經由profection 使木星在命盤內徵象災厄時，木星給予的吉利會失效。
＊：這邊的it 不確定是指木星或是ASC 。目前我認為是ASC 較有可能，即當年木星落入第六第八之類的宮位。
Venus will obstruct [evil] for eight years if it is in a cardine. 
金星最小年限為八年可免兇厄。
Saturn will obstruct [evil] for thirty years if it is in a cardine and dominant in that nativity (and its dominance is when by day it is lord of the Sun's triplicity or by night the lord of the Moon's triplicity), but if it does have these credentials it is not beneficial.（＊）土星最小年限為三十年可免兇厄，但土星需落角宮且是命盤主宰（即日生盤太陽的第一個三分星，夜生盤月亮的第一個三分星），不過即使此種狀態下土星也並非是吉利的。
＊：我不確定語意。也可能指土星天性凶惡不喜落角宮的關係。
Mercury will obstruct [the evil] in a nativity like this for twenty years if it is in a cardine and it has a share in the nativity like what I told you with regard to Saturn. 
水星最小年限二十年可免兇厄，但需要跟上述土星的條件一樣。
Mars will obstruct [the evil] for fifteen years if it is thus. 
火星最小年限十五年可免兇厄。但需與上述條件一樣。
If the Sun in a diurnal nativity is in a cardine or in its own triplicity, it will drive off the evil for nineteen years, but this will not happen to it [the Sun] in a nocturnal nativity. 
太陽最小年限十九年，但太陽需要落角宮且落在火象星座，並且不能為夜生盤。
If the Moon is in a cardine which is a feminine sign, it will drive off the evil for twenty-five years, but in masculine signs for twenty-five months. 
月亮最小年限二十五年可免兇厄，但月亮需要落角宮與陰性星座，但若是落在陽性星座則僅有二十五個月。筆者：這邊沒有提到晝生盤與月亮是否失光與否的問題。
Chapter 24. In it are judgments concerning the matter of fortune and property in nativities. 
筆者：這一章主要是以命例來說明光體三分星論命主整體財富地位的技巧。但問題是下面這些命例中，許多星體位置的計算（包括關鍵的三分星）都有錯誤，不得不令人思考這技術究竟在當時被檢驗的方式為何，以及這些支持這些技術的哲學理論與實際論斷之間的應用配合等等問題。
Now I will cause to pass by you [in review] the things in which I showed you [what to do] if you wish to judge the nativity with regard to property and fortune. 
A native was born when the ascendant was Gemini and the positions of its [the nativity's] planets in the sphere were according to this diagram. 

The nativity was nocturnal, and I found the first planets in the matter of fortune to be Mars and Venus because they are the lords of the triplicity of the sign in which the Moon is; and both of them are in cadents so that this man should be needy, poor, not finding his daily bread, miserable. And this was in him more evident than what I told you. 

This nativity was diurnal, and Aries was becoming visible at that hour in the East from out of the depths of the sea, and the lord of the Sun's triplicity was Saturn, then Mercury. Saturn was in what follows the cardine of the West and Mercury in what follows the cardine of midheaven, which is the place of fortune, so that the native should be wealthy, rich, powerful in business affairs, great in property, seizing eminence and fortune and increasing in them. 

This nativity was diurnal, and the first lord of the [Sun's] triplicity is the Sun, the second Jupiter, and both of these are in cardines in their own exaltations, so that the native should be praised with the praise of kings and nobles and wealthy men. Because Saturn is the third lord of the triplicity and is cadent from a cardine and Jupiter aspects it in its [Jupiter's] house from trine, so for that reason he will be praised with the praise of kings. 

Another nativity: its ascendant rising up from the earth is Scorpio, and the nativity is nocturnal, and the positions of the planets are according to what is in the diagram. The lord of the Moon's triplicity is Mars, then Venus, then the Moon. Because the three of them are in cardine[s] this man is mighty in eminence, powerful in leadership so that crowns of gold and silver are placed on him and he is praised. 

This is a second nocturnal nativity, and the first lord of the triplicity of the Moon is Mercury, the second Saturn. Because both of these are in a cadent in the vicinity of [the cardine] under the earth, the man will be needy with respect to property. But because Jupiter is the ruler of part of this nativity and is with the Moon in a cardine, he will have the closest thing to living out [his] days in poverty except that he will have the danger of the hand of misfortune. 

This nativity is diurnal, and the ascendant is Gemini, and the Sun in this nativity is the first lord of its own triplicity, Jupiter the second, and Saturn the third, and the three of them are in a good place. This man will abound in gold and silver except that his end is evil because the lord of the triplicity of [the cardine] under the earth, from which the matter of the end and the situation of death are known, is Venus, and Venus in this nativity is cadent in the sign of calamity. 

This nativity is nocturnal; so I looked at the two lords of the triplicity of the Moon, and I found the first of them to be Mercury, then Saturn, and both of them were in a cadent. Mars indicates the loss of the property of his father and its dispersal in [all] directions, and the lords of the triplicity which are in a cadent indicate poverty and indigence, and he will be beseeching all his days, but he will eat in misery. All this is from what Mercury and Saturn indicate, but since Jupiter and Venus are in cardines they indicate that he will be of noble lineage, but that he will be brought up and will grow up in houses of slavery, and he will curry favour with [his] brothers and nobles and will become acquainted [with them], but he will fail because of the evil effect of the lords of the Moon's triplicity. If you look concerning something like what I told you about this [any] error will be evident to you, if God —He is exalted! — wishes. 
Chapter 25. On the knowledge of the excellence of fortune. 
Know that the best of things with regard to fortune is that the lord of the triplicity of the luminary be in a good place with the Moon or in opposition to it or quartile or trine. 
論命主財富，時主光體的（第一個）三分星喜落強宮並跟月亮同宮、對分相、四分相或三分相。筆者：月亮為體魄自然徵象，亦為財星（特別是命主本身能動用的財富的質與量等）。此處可窺見財富與生命力的關係甚篤。
If you find the lord of the triplicity（＊1）not aspecting the ascendant nor the Moon nor the shining luminary and the lord of the sign in which the luminary is is also thus, then let this be a bad indication for that native. If Jupiter and Venus and Mercury are not in these places（＊2）, then this is more harmful and worse, because this indicates also that he will not long survive, especially if Saturn or Mars is in this place.（＊3）But if then there is a benefic which is in its [own] house or exaltation or triplicity and is not under the rays [of the Sun] or retrograde, and the lord of [its] triplicity（＊4）aspects the ascendant but does not aspect the Moon, then this native is middling in [his] livelihood, [and] good and evil are mixed together in him. 
若時主光體三分星跟ASC 、月亮、時主光體以及時主光體主宰星皆無相位，則不利命財；若此時該三分星跟木星、金星或水星亦無相位，則情況更糟，這表示命主命不久矣，尤其是當該三分星跟土星或火星有相位的時候。
筆者：時主光體的三分星為生命力『性』強弱的主要指標，而ASC 、月亮、時主光體等則與生命力的『質』有關，若兩者之間沒有連結，則『性與命』所構成的生命狀態亦衰弱，財富也會受影響。
＊：應指時主光體的三分星。
＊：可能是說，該三分星與木星、金星或水星等亦無相位。使用places 也可能表示whole sign aspect 。
＊：可能是指，該三分星與土星、火星有構成相位。Place 可能指涉whole sign aspect 。
＊：指時主光體的三分星。

It is also necessary for you to look at the lord of the ascendant and the lord of midheaven and the lord of the house of property, which is the second place from the ascendant. If you find these in their places with benefics and they are not malefics, and you find them in cardines or in what follows cardines, then predict that the native will possess fortune, eminence, commendation, praise, and a good livelihood. But if those which I mentioned are not all of them in good places nor all in a bad place, then the native is middling in [his] livelihood. If all of them are in a cadent, then look at where are the lord of the seventh sign and the lord of the eighth sign and the lord of the eleventh sign, which is the sign of fortune, and the lord of the fifth sign and the lord of the cardine, the fourth. If you find these also leaving the cardines, [being] in cadents, [and] not aspecting the Moon by night nor the Sun by day, then this native will be needing nourishment for his belly, and it will be worse for him if a malefic is in one of the cardines. 筆者：這一段跟omar 所提到的格局論斷法其中第三種有類似處，但omar 的記載較相對細膩些。參見omar 本命論斷第52 頁（現代英語版）。
Chapter 26. The magnitude of fortune and property. 
此章參見omar 的本命論斷（現代英語版）第51 頁。
Now I will show you the magnitude of fortune and property. Look at the lord of the triplicity of the sign in which is the shining luminary. If you find it in one of these four cardines in [such a way] that there are fifteen degrees [or less] between it and the cardine（＊1）, then predict about him that he will be most perfect in fortune and property. If it is in the second fifteen degrees, then predict concerning him the second fortune, which is what is available of what I told you in the beginning, as the nearer it is to the degree of the cardine, the higher it is for his rank in eminence and fortune. If that planet which is the lord of the triplicity of the shining [luminary] is in the third fifteen degrees, then the owner of this nativity will not be known, but according to this he will be middling in property and fortune.（＊2）If you find the lord of the triplicity after these degrees until it reaches the next cardine, then the natives will be needy [and] miserable. But you should have these degrees in [the rising-times of] the ascendants because degrees are equal, thirty [to a sign], but the ascendants are not equal because some of them are crooked and some straight. （＊3）And the crooked ones are quicker in rising, the straight ones slower in rising; and their rising-times in every region and clime is not the same because the region of the vicinity of the North is long and square while the vicinity of the South is low [and] excessive[?]. 
＊：參見上面第七章。這邊可推敲與四分宮位制的配合應用，而這邊的十五度根據下面紅字部分，指得應該是OA。
＊：因為是OA 為單位的第三等份，並非是真的cadent（不論是黃道等宮制或四分宮位制，頂多到『第二宮』附近），因此原文說middling 。
＊：這邊很明顯告知該十五度的計算單位為OA，而不是黃經。筆者：基本上希臘占星多半都是使用黃道等宮制，而這一段卻強調OA 這種與時間相關的應用，不排除是中世紀後期出現的增編？

If you find the lord of the triplicity of the Sun by day in a bad place and the lords of the triplicity of the Moon by night in a good place contrary to that, then there is no good in the native if it is thus, but according to this there was almost good and pleasure for him in property so that, if he thinks that his affair has drawn near, it will not increase according to this, but there was a destiny by which he is ruled in himself. 
If you find the lords of both luminaries in a bad place, then look at the lot of fortune as on account of it there is a change in some of these methods because it indicates the condition of the wealthy, those in the middle, and the poor. [For him] whose birth is in the day count from the Sun to the Moon and add to it the degrees of the ascendant, and in a nocturnal nativity the opposite of this. （＊）Then look at where it is located, whether its place is good or bad, what benefics or malefics aspect it, which is its lord and where it is. If he who possesses reason and discernment and who is not perplexed in science looks concerning this, he will know it lucidly and clearly. 
若兩個光體的主宰星皆落入兇宮，則看向福點。福點落宮吉凶，是否與吉凶星有相位，福點定位星為何及其落點。筆者：這一段文句可能有些闕漏（直接跳入光體定位星而沒提到光體本身）。參見Anthology 第二冊相關論斷。
＊：這邊的文字描述與其規範，其實若也有特別針對於asc 度數的加或減，那麼福點日夜盤落點會是一樣的，不過根據其他典籍如Anthology，很明顯Dorotheus 在此應僅針對光體順序而已。
If the lord of the lot aspects the lot from a bad place, then there is no good for the native; and similarly if you find its lord in a cadent [whether] aspecting it or not aspecting it. 若福點定位星落在兇宮跟福點有相位，則福點無吉用；若福點定位星落在cadent，不論有沒有跟福點發生相位，福點同樣也無吉用。
If the lot and its lord are thus in the sixth or twelfth or the malefics aspect [them] or [they are] under the rays of the Sun, then they have no power and no efficacy. 
若福點與其定位星落在第六或第十二宮，或者兇星與他們有相位，或他們受陽光籠罩，則福點無效用。
If by day Mars is with the lord of the lot of fortune or aspects it from quartile or opposition, then there is no good in it. 
晝生盤，若火星跟福點定位星合相或有四分相或對衝，則福點不帶吉用。If its lord does not aspect it, but the lord of the lot is in the sign of fortune（＊）or the fifth, then there is born because of this [one who is] happy and wealthy, especially if it does aspect the lot. 
＊：不確定是否指第五宮或是與福點同宮。
If you find the lord of the lot of fortune under the rays of the Sun, then it has no power to grant good. 
若福點定位星受陽光籠罩，則福點不帶吉用。
The best that is [possible] is if Saturn witnesses（＊1） the lord of the lot of fortune in aspect, and it （＊2）witnesses Jupiter or the Sun by day, and by night it witnesses Mars or Venus or the Moon or Mercury; everything one considers will be good. 
最佳的狀況是，土星跟福點定位星有相位，晝生盤且同時跟木星或太陽有相位，夜生盤與火星、金星或月亮有相位。
＊1：這裡的witness 不確定是否有強調黃道的先後順序。參見The Thesaurus 第21 頁Concerning Looking Ahead 。
＊2：不確定it 是指土星或是福點定位星。我認為應是福點定位星。

筆者：此段文意應該是－晝生盤，福點定位星喜與晝生星體有相位；夜生盤，則福點定位星喜與夜生星體有相位。
The best that is [possible] is if the lord of the lot of fortune is in its house or triplicity or exaltation or term. 喜見福點定位星落在自己主宰的星座，triplicity，擢升位以及terms 裡面。
If you find the lord of the lot of fortune in a cadent, and Venus and Jupiter in [what is] like this, then let this be a harmful indication in which will be born none except people of contempt; and it is worse for this if the Moon does not aspect the benefics. If with this the malefics are in cardine[s] or in what follows a cardine, then the native will fall upon misfortunes and he will be injured according to that. 若福點定位星cadent ，且金星與木星也cadent ，則命主一生受人輕賤；若月亮此時跟吉星亦無相位則更糟。若加上兇星落角宮或succedent houses ，則命主將遭逢不幸，並因此結構蒙受傷疾。
If you find the lord of the lot injured, but the benefics in a good place witnessing（＊）it and the ascendant and the Moon, and the benefics are eastern, then he is middling with respect to property and livelihood because Jupiter, if it is in a good place, always indicates that the native attains good 
from nobles and mighty people and from well known work, and he will acquire property for this reason, and if Venus is in a place like this it indicates benefit because of women, and if Mercury is in this place it indicates benefit because of commerce and science and calculation, and if Mercury and Jupiter are mixed together he will be a confidant with kings and bands [of people]. 
＊：不確定這邊的witness 是否有強調黃道順序的先後。參見The Thesaurus 第21 頁。
If the lord of the lot is in a known good place and with this the benefics aspect it in good places without the aspect of the malefics, then this native will be one of the kings and the free-born, greedy for righteousness, and he will be one of the mighty nobles. But if the power of the planets and the lord of the lot is as we said, but the malefics are witnessing them, then the native will fall from his fortune. 
福點定位星。。。
He for whom the malefics are in cardines and the benefics in what follow cardines and he whose Moon turns away from the malefics and comes into conjunction with the benefics, these will be at the beginning of their life despised [and] in disgrace, then they will attain property and fortune and joy. 兇星落角宮，而吉星落succedent houses，或者月亮出相位兇星入相位吉星，則表示命主先苦後甘。筆者：月亮為體魄自然徵象，也是財星指標（特別是命主本身能動用的財富的質與量等）。
If you find [that] the benefics have ameliorated the ascendant and the midheaven, but you find the malefic in the seventh without the aspect of the benefics, then the native will be well known [and] good in [his] condition, [but] then he will fall from his fortune and his property quickly. 
筆者：吉星要同時跟ASC 與MC 有相位，則吉星只能落第三宮；但如果又要同時跟第七宮的兇星無相位，除非使用四分宮位制，或這邊強調星體moiety 容許度而不用whole sign aspect，否則此段記載難以成立。
If you find the lot of fortune in a bad place, or the malefics aspecting [it] in conjunction with it or opposition to it or in its quartile, or its lord not aspecting it or being western without light（＊1）, or its lord being in a bad place or in its dejection, not aspecting the Moon by night or the Sun by day, while the benefics do not aspect it [the lord], then judge for him [the native] calamity and misfortune in [his] condition, especially if the lord of the triplicity of the shining luminary is in this kind of position.（＊2）若福點落兇宮，或兇星與福點有合相、對分相或四分相，或者福點定位星與福點無相位，或是福點定位星occidental 且失光，
或福點定位星落入兇宮或自己的陷落位，且夜生跟月亮、晝生與太陽無相位，（福點定位星）亦無跟吉星有相位，則命主將承受苦難，尤其當時主三分星也事類似的狀況時更是如此。
＊1：不確定這邊是指受陽光籠罩或是指星體離地遠近於本身亮度的變化，但應是前者較可能。
＊2：參閱上面第25 章，時主三分星的部份。

If you find Saturn or Mars in a sign of property, especially if it is in the sign of property which is the second from the ascendant, then it indicates a fall from property and status unless [these] two are in their portions [sects] (the portion of Mars is the night, the portion of Saturn the day). The malefics indicate similarly if they are in the cardine of the earth, and their destructiveness is worse if one of them is in opposition to the other without the aspect of Jupiter because this indicates flight or a terrible death and a hard fall. 
土星或火星落在主宰財富的宮位，尤其是第二宮，則表示財富與地位的敗破，除非落入該宮是晝生盤的土星或者夜生盤的火星。兇星落在第四宮具有類似的效果，尤其是當兩兇星在第四宮與第十宮對衝且木星沒有跟他們有相位的時候，這徵象慘死與（權勢地位）急遽的隕落。
If you find Mars in what follows the cardine of midheaven, then know that the native will fall from his property because this place, the eleventh, if a malefic is in it, indicates destruction and weakness, but if a benefic is [in it], it indicates the acquisition of property unexpectedly. 
火星落在第十一宮，表示命主財富將敗落，因為兇星落第十一宮表示（財庫）破損與薄弱；若吉星落第十一宮則表示意料外的財富。筆者：第十一宮與子嗣有關，即命主『生命』的傳承，與財富亦有相當關連性。
If I you find the lot of fortune in the term[s] of the benefics and a good place and the aspect of the benefics then that native will acquire property from his own property in affluence. 
福點落在吉星主宰的terms 與吉宮，並跟吉星有相位，表示命主將因本身優裕的財富而得到更多的財利（錦上添花）。
If you find the first lord of the triplicity of the lot of fortune not aspecting the lot, but the second is aspecting [it], then some of the native's property will be squandered and some will remain. If both of them are not aspecting the lot, but the benefics do aspect it, then he has a good livelihood from strangers together with praise and commendation, but if a benefic and a malefic aspect it, then his livelihood is a mixture of good and bad.（＊）
若福點第一個三分星沒有跟福點有相位，但第二個三分星則跟福點有相位，表示命主部分的財富會被揮霍掉，部分則可以被維持住。如果福點前兩個三分星都沒有跟福點有相位，但有吉星跟福點發生相位，則表示命主將從陌生人處得到財富與讚揚等等；但如果吉星與兇星同時跟福點有相位，則表示命主得財狀況將好壞混雜。
＊：也可能表示得財方式的正當與不正當？
If in a diurnal nativity diurnal planets aspect the lot or in a nocturnal [nativity] nocturnal planets, then this is a good testimony with regard to fortune and property, but if they are different from what I said then his livelihood is difficult and he will attain property after delay and despair. 
晝生盤，福點喜見與晝生星體有相位；夜生盤，則喜見與夜生星體。若與上述情況相反，則表示命主得財不順有困難，伴隨延遲與失望等等。
Chapter 27. The decline of status and disaster. 
If you find Saturn with the Moon in one of the cardines, then, even if he is the son of a king, it indicates his fall from fortune and property. If with this Mars aspects [them], it will be a disaster. If Jupiter is with them in a cardine, then his property and his fortune will remain for some time, but after that will decline, even if Jupiter is aspecting. 
土星與月亮落在（同一）角宮，即使命主出身富貴之家，也會破敗；若火星跟他們有相位，則有災難；若木星跟他們同落角宮，則命主財富與吉幸可持續一段時間，但終究會破敗，即使木星跟他們有相位。
I instruct you to look at the sign which is the second place from the ascendant.（＊）If you find a malefic in it or in opposition or quartile to it, then judge a decline in property and livelihood. 
＊：黃道等宮制
•If Venus is the lord of that place, then predict that that is a disaster, and there will be a fall from his reputation among women. 
•If Mercury is its lord, then the disaster which occurs will be because of a book or calculation. 
•If Jupiter is its lord, then the disaster [will be] because of a man, a noble, or the wrath of kings, or because of the action of the government or his city. 
•If this house is the house of Mars, then it will be because of violent acts or ... or anger or thieves or the burning of fire or [something] like this because this is its nature. 
•If the house is the house of Saturn, then his disaster will be from mature men and slaves or from one who is freed [or] from one who has no commendation or praise or from one whose life revolves in misery and misfortune, or with respect to a building or from a house of burial this disaster occurs. 
•If you find this place [to be] the house of the Sun, which is Leo, then the disaster will be because of [his] fathers or his fathers' women or his mother's husbands, or with respect to a debt or to money which he has borrowed. 
•If this sign is the house of the Moon, which is Cancer, [and the Moon] is not in a good place, then the disaster will be because of [his] mothers or his mother's relatives, or disaster will be his [because of] his father's wives. 

在第二宮有兇星時，該兇星之各種定位星的情況，所遭受損害的來源。筆者：第二宮作為財帛論斷主軸，在Valens（西元二世紀中葉）的著作中並未提及，並且對於第二宮的描述可以判斷為兇宮或者idle 之宮位；但第二宮相關的財帛記載（livelihood ）在Mathesis（西元三世紀末至四世紀中葉前）則已有記錄，且該描述與Anthology 相較下，有矛盾衝突出現。其他後期典籍如Paulus 的Introductory Matters 等等，其記述則類近於Mathesis 。
Look at the kinds of signs — tropical or fixed or possessing two bodies, or of the kinds [which are] of water [or of] air or possessing four legs or similar to humans or terrestrial — or [whether] its lord is a malefic or a benefic because it is bad if the lord of the second house is in a bad place and is a malefic, but if it is a benefic and is in a bad place, then he [the native] is middling with respect to [his] livelihood. If it is a benefic and it is in a good place, but the malefics aspect [it] as you found [it], then sometimes the misery will be diminished. If the lord of this place is in a bad place, it also harms his place（＊）, or [if] malefics other than it [the lord] aspect [it] or are in it. So these [men]are always anxious about [their] livelihood and have little joy, [but are] filled with grief and misery and misfortune and calamity, and they seek everything in misery and suffering and little profit, so that [even] if it is the nativity of a king, his money will be spent on inferior thing[s]. 
注意第二宮星座的特性，基本變動以及四元素等，以及第二宮主星的吉凶性。若第二宮主星是兇星且落兇宮，則得財困難；若第二宮主星是吉星但落兇（弱）宮，則得財平均；若第二宮主星是吉星且落吉（強）宮，但有受兇星相位，則有時後不幸並不會發生；若第二宮主星落兇（弱）宮，也會對第二宮帶來困難；或是兇星落第二宮或跟第二宮刑衝也是同樣的效果。這些人常會因自己的得財狀況而感到焦慮且不快樂，總是被不幸貧困環繞，這些人總是追求少有利益或難以謀利的事物，因此即使命主生在富貴之家，其財富也會被浪費在這些無關緊要的事物上。
＊：星體狀態不良，其主宰的星座也會受到影響。筆者：這一段非常強調第二宮為主軸與得財方式的關連性。參閱Anthology 第二冊第21 章。
Look also at the Moon, as, if you find, together with what I mentioned of the goodness of the second place, the Moon in a good place aspecting the second place, increasing in its number[s] and its light, in trine with the Sun, and Mars does not aspect it, then it indicates that he is well known, mighty in his leadership and work in cities and the service of kings, a confidant of them, [and] influential because of this. But if what I mentioned is as I mentioned while the Moon is decreasing, then this will decrease him, and they will not present his management in a favourable light nor will they have praise for him. 
注意月亮的狀態。若命盤裡有發現上述第二宮相關的吉兆，且月亮落在吉宮跟第二宮有相位，而月亮增光且運行速度加快，又跟太陽有三分相，而火星沒有跟月亮有相位，則表示命主將聲名顯耀，具有高度的統御能力與官職地位，可為掌權者之心腹，並在社會上因此有相當影響力。但若命盤是呈現上述第二宮相關的兇相，且月亮減光，則表示命主難以出類拔萃，也難以受到掌權者賞識。
Look which is the lord of the second, then count from it to the second place [and add it to the degree of the ascendant] as from [that] place the matter of livelihood will be made clear to you.（＊）If you look concerning its condition and the condition of its lord and the aspectors of these two, they will show you the condition of [his] livelihood.
計算財產點。注意財產點與其定位星的狀況，並觀察與他們有相位的星體，可由此窺見命主的得財狀況。
＊：財產點的計算。有爭議。根據上下文，這邊應該是使用黃道等宮制；另一方面，LOT 的計算在valens 所提供的命例裡，有明確使用到星體與點落度數的指示，不過我認為直接以『星座』數也是lot 的數理計算之一。
If its lord is in a good place and the benefics witness it, then predict good in him. If the lord of that place is a malefic and aspects another malefic or is with it, then it indicates great misery in his livelihood. If the lord of this place is a benefic and it is favourable in a cardine in its own place, then he will be wealthy [and] rich. If it is western but will rise in seven [days], then he will be rich, but will have no fame and not everyone will know of his wealth.（＊）若財產點定位星落在吉宮且跟吉星有相位，則表示命主得財順遂；若財產點定位星是兇星且跟另一兇星有相位或合相，表示命主得財非常不易；若財產點定位星是吉星且落在角宮與自己主宰的星座，則命主將會非常富有。
如果財產點定位星處在occidental 且在七天內會升起，則命主將會富有，但不會有名聲且並非所有人都會知道命主富有。
＊：又要occidental 又要在七天內升起，有些矛盾，除非是指七天內跟太陽合相。
See which planet is found in the lot. If you find the lot of property in a good place and its lord also in [something] like this [and] eastern, then what it indicates will last for a long time. But if the lord of the lot of property is in a good place but under the rays of the Sun, then what the lot indicates will not remain except for a little while. If you find the lot in a bad place, then his condition will have no rise and no conclusion. 
注意財產點與哪顆星體同宮。若財產點落吉宮，其定位星也落吉（強）宮並且oriental ，則表示命主財富可持久。若財產點定位星落吉宮但受陽光籠罩，表示命主財產僅會持續一陣子。若財產點落兇（弱）宮，表示命主財產難以增富且弱。
If you find the planets retrograde in a nativity in which the planets are strong, then he will be distressed, a coward. If it is thus in a bad nativity, then his condition [tends] toward deterioration. 
星體逆行在強宮，表示命主容易自尋煩惱，怯弱；若發生在命格低下的命盤，則徵象衰敗。
Also know the lot of livelihood. If you find Jupiter in a cardine or what follows a cardine, then your saying that he will be brought up will become clear. If there are some malefics in his nativity, they indicate hardship. If a malefic aspects it or the planets indicate his loss, then they indicate misery in his nativity and that he will leave his parents; and so also is the judgment about him. But even if he leaves his parents as the planets indicate, yet he will inherit their property because in bad nativities if Jupiter is in such a place, the injury becomes insignificant and the misfortunes dissolve; even if he does not attain a good livelihood, yet he will achieve something because of the position of Jupiter. 
Similarly if Venus is in a cardine or what follows a cardine, except that its strength is not the equal of Jupiter's strength save in the matter of women, then there will be seen for him because of these two participation in livelihood and pleasure. If these two benefics which I mentioned to you are in strength from their place[s], they indicate good and beauty in cities and groups of men because many are his acquaintances and friends, and sometimes his enemy will turn to agreeing with him so that they will become friends with him, especially if these two planets are in their places aspecting the Sun by day and the Moon by night in trine, because this increases their strength and their efficacy and their steadfastness. 
If you find Mars, the murderous one, or Saturn, the destroyer, in what is near those places in which I mentioned that Jupiter and Venus were, then they indicate the severance of [his] upbringing, and that, even if the work of the native is good among men, all will not be grateful to him nor will they praise him, but one whom he did not harm in anything will treat him as an enemy until he shall see from the generality of men grief and sorrow. If he is a king, then his people and his city will be destroyed for him and will fall into discord and quarrel[s] and necessity. Similarly predict in the case of middling and inferior nativities because the sons of his paternal uncle and his kinfolk will treat him as an enemy, and he also will not love anyone of them. If you find Saturn in this place, then this native will be reflective and anxious, ugly, malicious, [and] haughty to himself and to those who mingle with him. But if it is Mars, it indicates insolence and that he is a laborer insignificant in his thought and reflection, but Saturn or Mars is less harmful if Jupiter or Venus aspects it. 
See, when a native is born, which [planet] will reach the ascendant after his birth or the place of the Moon, as from this planet the matter of fortune and his property and what its extent is will be clear to you. 
Chapter 28. Knowledge of masculine and feminine signs, eastern and western, and diurnal and nocturnal. 
Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius are masculine, eastern, [and] diurnal; their lord by day is the Sun, by night Jupiter, and the associate of these two is Saturn. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn are feminine, northern, [and] nocturnal; their lord by day is Venus, by night the Moon, and the associate of these two is Mars, while Mercury has a share in Virgo. Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius are western, diurnal, [and] masculine; their lord by day is Saturn, by night Mercury, and the associate of these two is Jupiter. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces are feminine, nocturnal, [and] southern; their lord by day is Venus, by night Mars, and the associate of these two is the Moon. 
三分主星。但是水象與土象的地理方向性跟一般常見的剛好相反，此處有待商榷。
The first book is finished. Praise to God, the grantor of fortune to whom He wishes of His servants because of his excellence, and Who removes misfortune from whom He wishes of His servants because of his faith, and Who is generous, beneficent, just, [and] compassionate. May His blessing be upon His prophets whom He has chosen and [upon] all of His messengers. 