赫密斯金言百则
　 　前
50
条
  
译者：卫慈（修正·星海一粟）
   
后
50
条
  
译者：星海一粟
　　（说明：本文档前
50
条翻译内容来源于网路，版权归原翻译者所有。在阅读过程中，本人对原作者的翻译作了部分的修改，使其更加的准确。后
50
条，由网友提供，本人翻译。文中有些本人也不是非常了解，如有不同见解或认为有错误的地方，欢迎大家指正补充，也希望能联系本人，感激不尽。）
QQ
：
365912767
·星海一粟。
               
——
 2010-03-28
　　
1. The Sun and Moon next unto God are the life of all things living: Yet many nativities have no hyleg; yet because the Sun and Moon friendly behold their ascendant, or be therein free from affliction, their lives shall be the longer continued. [1]
　　日月直通神境，是万物生命之源。虽然许多人无法拥有
hyleg
，但因日月注视命度，或在命宫之内，并免于刑克，其人生命得以长续。
　　
2. All diurnal nativities are strengthened by the Sun, when well beheld by the fortunes; nocturnal of the Moon, when she is so fortified. If this happen not, yet if good planets be found in angles, the nativity shall be good.
　　当太阳为吉星相照，一切昼生之命皆受其巩固；当月亮如此，夜生之命亦然。如上述不存，吉星落于四始之宫，命主亦受恩泽。
　　
3. When Mars, lord of the ascendant, shall be posited in the tenth, it confers on the native dignity and power; which will be accompanied with injury and cruelty; and may therefore be said, a misfortune, rather than happiness.
　　当命主火星落于
10
宫，其将赋予命主尊贵与权力，但伤害与荼毒亦将伴随。甚言之，祸胜于福。
　　
4. Jupiter in good aspect with the infortunes, changes their malevolency into good. Venus cannot effect any such thing, unless assisted by Jupiter; therefore in procuring good, and prohibiting ill, Jupiter is found much better than Venus. [2]
　　当木星与凶星吉照，将转祸为福，金星则无力施为，除非亦受木星之助；在助善禁恶方面，木星之力远胜金星。
　　
5. The artist cannot make a commixion of the significations of the stars, before he know their friendships and enmities, which is threefold. First, according to their nature. Secondly, according to their houses. Thirdly, according to their aspects.
　　在知悉双方敌友关系之前，术家不能融合行星的含义，敌友关系有三层，第一、考虑他们本质属性，第二、考虑宫位，第三、考虑相位。
　　
6. Venus is opposite to Mercury. He comprehends languages and discipline; she delights and pleasures, Jupiter the like to Mars; this corvette mercy and justice; that, impiety and cruelty. [3]
　　金星与水星相对，水星代表言语、纪律；金星代表愉悦、逸乐。木星与火星相对，木星代表仁慈、正义；火星代表亵渎、残忍。
　　
7. Make the Sun, or any of the superiors to signify princes and great persons. Scribes and rusticks, [4] [are shown by] the inferior planets, and chiefly the Moon.
　　太阳或任何外行星代表王子与贵族。内行星代表平民大众，尤以月亮为是。
　　
8. The signification of the conjunction is not lessened by an aspect; but the aspect is by the conjunction; as having lesser force, than it.
　　合相征兆不受其它相位削弱，但其它相位将受合相削弱，特别当相位力道弱（如何判断？）于合相时。
　　
9. Give not judgment, neither elect anything, while Scorpio is ascending, neither when the 
angles are oblique or crooked,[5] or if Mars be in the ascendant; the event will prove cross, and the matter come to no good end; for Scorpio is a sign of falsity.
　　当命度为天蝎时，不可解卦与择日，当始宫为短上升星座时亦然。或火星在命宫，事件将翻腾复杂，且结果不吉，因天蝎为虚诈星座。
　　
10. Good planets, afflicted of the infortunes from the sixth or twelfth houses, signify ill.
　　吉星受来自
6
宫与
12
宫之凶星所伤时，代表疾病不祥之事。
　　
11. Rumours spread when the Moon is in the first face of Scorpio are false, and knavishly forged.
　　当月亮位于天蝎第一面向时，谣言恶意编造，虚假广布。
　　
12. The judgments of astrologers are not many times true, by reason of the error of their instruments, or querents' ignorance; or when the Sun is near the midheaven, or when the arguments of promise and denial of the thing are equal in the figure.
　　占星家的论断偶尔失准，或由于他们解释有误，或因案主愚昧；或当太阳接近天顶，或当吉凶之象相当时。
　　
13. While the Moon shall be south descending in Scorpio or Pisces, begin not then to build; for a fabrick then erected quickly comes to ruin.
　　当月亮于下降宫逢天蝎或双鱼时，暂缓起造，否则建筑将迅速崩毁。
　　
14. Mercury being strong and in proper places of the Heavens, well configurated of other stars or planets in nativities, denotes convenient dignity to the native thereby; but Mercury of himself is a planet weak.
　　水星有力且落位良好，与其它星体相位甚佳，表示命主尊贵，但水星本身非强星。
　　
15. Whosoever contendeth with another & overcomes when the significators are in signs bicorporeal, [6] gets a great victory; if overcome, looseth much; for then the good or evil is doubled.
　　当征象主星落入双体星座，争战之时如能克敌，必获大胜。但杀敌一万，自损八千，因双体星座吉凶损益必然双重。
　　
16. Give not judgment before thou knowest the intention of the querent; for many ask they know not what, nor can they express what they intend.
　　自身明白案主意图时，勿予论断，因其不知所问，亦不知所云。
　　
17. When thou shalt be interrogated for a father, behold the fourth house; for a brother, the third; of a son, the fifth; of a wife, the seventh: But if for a sick person, behold the ascendant only. [7]
　　当被问及父亲之事，看
4
宫、问及手足之事看
3
宫、子女之事看
5
宫、夫妻之事看
7
宫，若求问病人，唯看命宫耳。
　　
18. When the Moon shall come to the quadrate of the fortunes or infortunes, and the testimonies of the helps or hinderances of the matter doubtful; it is to be doubted that the strength of the bad planets will more impede, than the others can assist.
　　当月亮与吉星或凶星相刑入相位，而吉助与阻碍之势不能确定，必须考虑凶星之力是否强于吉星抗衡之力。
　　
19. In the beginning of journeys, and returns therefrom, let not the Moon be in the ascendant, fourth, or ninth houses, although she be not afflicted. In the entering of a city, place her neither in the ascendant, second, or fourth houses. [8]
　　出行之始与返回之际，月亮不可在命宫、
4
宫或
9
宫，亦不可遭刑克。当进入某城之时，月亮不可在命宫、
2
宫与
4
宫。
　　
20. There are three ways of discovering the accidents proper to men; viz. from the geniture of the native, birth of his first child, or by a question propounded, with which the mind was solicitous and affected.
　　三种状况可知意外之事，即从本命星盘、第一位子女的出生星盘或提问的卜卦盘，因其心热切并受感应。
　　
21. Every beginning when the Moon shall be joined to a Retrograde planet will soon be destroyed, and if she shall be otherwise impedited, the mischief will happen the sooner.
　　事件之初，若月亮与逆行星体入相位将蒙受灾难，若月亮亦被刑克，则凶祸速至。
　　
22. Make Saturn and Sun significators of kings and princes, with the planet, and planets of the tenth; but their helpers take from the eleventh, and the assistants of vulgar persons from the second house.
　　土星与太阳与
10
宫交涉象征国王与王子，
11
宫象征其援助者，平民百姓的援助者由
2
宫象征。（宫内星？宫主星？个人感觉是宫内星。
8
宫可以是对手的支持者。）
　　
23. When a king or prince sets forth to journey, be sure reject that time when Cancer ascends.
　　当国王与王子出行，须避免命度位于巨蟹座。
　　
24. Gemini and Sagittarius obey the head and tail of the Dragon, more than other signs: therefore do they work more mischief in those signs than they do in any other. [9]
　　罗睺、计都在双子与射手得力甚于其它星座。故其在此二星座为祸更甚于其它。
　　
25. When either Taurus or Libra ascends in women's nativities and Mars therein, the native will be immodest and unchaste; the same if Capricorn shall ascend.
　　当女性命度落金牛与天平且逢火星于命宫，命主将不逊而淫荡，命度魔羯火星入命亦然。
　　
26. The virtues of the planets are received by the Sun, when he is posited either in the ascendant or midheaven, in conjunction of them. The Moon in the night-time receives them also, if in the aforesaid places, she be joined to them.
　　当太阳在命度、天顶或会合时，诸星效力将尽为所纳。夜间月亮在命度、天顶或会合时亦然。
　　
27. Jupiter dissolves Saturn's malice; and Venus dissolves Mars's.
　　木星可解土星之恶，金星可解火星之恶。
　　
28. When a question is propounded of a woman, take Venus as her natural significatrix: but more particularly the seventh house. But if a question be asked of an Enemy, respect the twelfth house; but, then more particularly, the seventh also.
　　当所问对象为女性时，以金星为自然征象星，但特别要关注
7
宫。若问及敌人看
12
宫，但仍需特别注意
7
宫。
　　
29. When any one goeth to war, especially a king, let the ascendant be one of the houses of the superiour planets, or of the Sun. And let the lord of the ascendant, and the Sun be potent in the figure; but the lord of the seventh weak and unfortunate.
　　赴战争之择吉，特别是御驾亲征时，取木火土日所管星座为命度，且选择盘中命主，太阳有力，而
7
宫主衰微不幸之时。
　　
30. The Moon increasing in light and motion, and in conjunction of Saturn or Jupiter, is generally good in all things: but if she be diminished in light, 'tis ill; understand the contrary wholly, when she is in conjunction of Venus and Mars.
　　月亮增光增速且与木土会合时，普遍象征吉利，但若月亮减光则代表不吉；情势将完全反转，当月亮会合金星火星合相时。
　　
31. Let not Jupiter be under the Sun beams, or otherwise impedited, when you either pawn or lend things; which if he shall be so, and not received of the planet impediting, there will be 
little or no hopes of redemption.
　　当典当或租赁时，切不可让木星为太阳焦伤，或其他刑克；否则，如不被刑克他的星体接纳，偿还亦将微薄甚至无望。
　　
32. Fortunate planets going to conjunction or aspect of one of the infortunes, in any figure, diminish their evil influence. If the figure be good, the greater good they do; if ill, the lesser. But the malevolents in square or opposition of the benevolents diminish and abate of their virtues, the other aspects hinder not.
　　盘中吉星与凶星合相或入相位，将减低凶星之恶。如盘中吉象愈多愈然，愈少反之。而凶星与吉星刑冲，将减低吉星之美，若相位吉则不可同论。
　　
33. Saturn passing out of one sign into another causes strange apparitions in the heavens, which the Arabians term Assub; or certain other signs of a Fiery nature.
　　土星始入另一星座时，将带给天下奇妙变化，即阿拉伯人所谓
Assub
，始入火象星座亦然。
　　
34. The conjunction of Jupiter and Sun produceth temperate air, chiefly, when celebrated in aerial signs. From the conjunction of Saturn & Sun, comes cold; and from conjunction of the Sun & Mars, in the Spring season, proceeds a cloudy dark air, it happening in double bodied signs, whence diseases very frequently follow.
　　日木合相时，天下生风，特别是在风象星座时。日土合相，天下生寒；春季日火在双体星座合相，乌云挟风，时疫常随。
　　
35. In summer, when the Sun enters the terms of Mars, heat is caused; in winter, drought, and scarcity of rain and waters.
　　夏季当太阳进入火星之界，天下生热；冬季生旱，雨水匮乏。
　　
36. In the nativities and questions of men, make hyleg, and alchocoden, and their directions; chiefly, in questions concerning kings and great persons, by which their accidents are chiefly known, let them be good, or evil.
　　论命时，尤其关乎国王或贵人，须观察生命主与寿命主以及他们的向运以资预测主要事件意外之吉凶。
　　
37. If the ascendant be fortunate, and the lord thereof unfortunate, it indicates a sound and healthful body, but an afflicted mind. But if the contrary happen, judge the contrary.
　　若命度吉，命主凶，代表身体健康，但神智劳损，反之则反推。
　　
38. Always note the configurations of the stars, not by their signs, but orbs. [10]
　　常注意星体相位结构，不以星座论而以容许度论。
　　
39. Let the Moon be increasing in light, and free from the aspects of the infortunes, when you would cure sore eyes.
　　治疗眼疾应取月亮增光且不逢凶星所伤之时。
　　
40. The Part of Fortune with ill planets in the fourth, ninth, or tenth houses, denote death to the sick.
　　幸运点与凶星同落
4
、
9
、
10
代表病人死亡。
　　
41. When the significator of either good or evil shall be stationary, and angular, it shall be more durable. But it shall be the more mutable and variable, if the significator shall be cadent from angles, and retrograde.
　　吉凶的象征星，当其停留落于角宫，势将持久；若逆行落于果宫，多变，性情不定。
　　
42. The lord of the second house hath the same strength in hurting, as the lord of the eighth; the lord of the sixth, the same with the lord of the twelfth.
　　
2
宫主星与
8
、
6
、
12
宫主星一样，能带来一定程度的凶险。
　　
43. Mars occidental in Cancer not beheld of Saturn, Jupiter, Venus, or Sun, makes a good 
phlebotomist. But if Mars shall be in Capricorn, it makes a destroyer of men, and one that delights to shed blood.
　　火星西入于巨蟹，且不与木星、土星、金星、太阳相照，利于放血。若火星位于魔羯，将危害人命且不利于放血者。
　　
44. The best artist in the world may chance to err, when he mistakes a true significator for a false one.
　　当其判断征象星真假错误时，最好的术家亦可能犯错。
　　
45. When Saturn shall be elevated above Venus, and in square of her, it makes the native shameless, and a perfect woman-hater. But if Venus be elevated above Saturn, he shall be a great friend unto women.
　　当土星高于金星且与金星相刑，命主将蒙羞且憎恨女性。若金星高于土星则得女性之缘。
　　
46. If in any nativity Mercury shall be in the ascendant, oriental, and swift; the native will be eloquent, and learned in the liberal sciences: the same happeneth, if he shall be in Sagittarius in his proper terms.
　　若水星东出、顺行速行落命宫，命主将是雄辩之人且为通才，若水星落于射手在自己的界中亦然。
　　
47. The first of the angles is the ascendant: the second, the M.C., the third, the seventh house, the fourth Imum Coeli. But of the rest of the places, the eleventh is first, then the second; after that, the fifth; then the ninth, and third; but the sixth, eighth, and twelfth, are accounted the worst.
　　强宫之中以命宫为首、其次天顶、再次
7
宫、
4
宫最末；余以
11
宫为强，再次
2
宫、再次
5
宫、再次
9
宫、
3
宫最末；
6
宫弱、
8
宫更弱、
12
宫最为不吉。
　　
48. Mars's influence is never abated, unless by the interposure of a benevolent planet.
　　火星之恶未能稍减，除非逢吉星化解。
　　
49. Let your significator agree with his, whom you intend to supplicate.
　　注意征象是否符合案主所问。
　　
50. The ascendant, or a planet found in the last degree, the signification must be taken from the following sign; but if in 29 deg. in the same sign, the strength of a planet is considered three ways, viz. in the degree where he is found, and next preceding and succeeding.
　　命度或星体在星座后面度数，征象可以其后星座为主，但若落
29
度，星体力量须考虑三种途径，即是
29
度与
29
度前后。
　　
51. We should consider of future contingents from the conjunctions of the planets, but things past or present from their separations.
　　从行星入相考虑将要发生的事件，从离相考虑过去的或现在的事情。
　　
52. When Jupiter shall be in Cancer removed from the ascendant, and no way impedited of any other star, the native will be rational, and very expert in science; but delighting to lead a recluse life, and shall not have the due applause of his learning.
　　当木星在巨蟹远离上升，并不被其他行星以任何方式刑克，其人是理性的，专长科学；但乐于过一种隐居的生活，因而不会因其学识被人们称赞。
　　
53. In the world many evils will happen, when in one month there shall happen an eclipse of both luminaries; chiefly in those places subject to the sign in which they happen.
　　当某个月如果发生日月食，世界上会发生很多不幸的事，主要发生在那些归日月食发生的星座管辖的地区。
　　
54. When the Moon shall be in the combust way, or peregrine, in the beginning of a journey, the person will either fall sick in his journey, or shall be otherwise grievously troubled and 
molested.
　　在旅行之始，如月亮在
“
燃烧之路
”
，或浮游，其人要么在旅途中生病，要么有令人讨厌的麻烦和干扰。
　　
55. It behooves the astrologer to consider the time in directions of the planets; but in the fixed stars it is not so needful.
　　占星家有必要考虑此时行星的顺逆行，（还是行星的向运）对于恒星就不需要了。
　　
56. The father's estate shall pass to the son, if Saturn shall be fortunate, and in friendly aspect of the lord of the ascendant: but this more freely, if Saturn shall be lord of the fourth.
　　土星吉，并且和命主有友好的相位（吉相位），父亲的财产将传给儿子，如果土星是
4
宫主，更是容易发生。
　　
57. Fortunate planets being in signs wherein they have no dignity, their benignity is translated another way.
　　吉星在其落入的星座内没有尊贵势力，他们的吉性将以另一种方面表达。
　　
58. Mars almuten of a nativity, and not joined to good planets, signifieth the native to suffer by envy and hatred.
　　火星是盘主星，且不和吉星有相位，表明其人遭遇嫉妒和憎恨。
　　
59. The fortunate stars confer great felicity, when they shall be received of each other in their proper houses; and when the evil planets are so received, they refrain from doing much mischief.
　　当吉星彼此接纳时，他们会赋予极大的幸运；当凶星互容时，会抑制他们产生更多伤害。
　　
60. The native will be sickly and weak, when Saturn is elevated above Mars; but if Mars shall be elevated above Saturn, he shall be fat and lusty.
　　当土星高于火星，主其人容易生病和虚弱；如火星高于木星，主其人易发胖和健壮。
　　
61. In men's nativities, if the part of marriage shall fall in signs obedient; and in women's in signs imperant, the woman shall rule the man, and the man shall obey; sin autem contra, dic contra.[11]
　　在男人的本命盘中，如果婚姻点落在服从星座；在女人的本命盘中，其落在命令星座，女人将统治男人，男人将服从；反之，亦反之。
　　
62. If the lords of the triplicity of the conjunction of the lights shall friendly respect each other, the first to the second, the second to the third, it shows eminent prosperity, and a freedom from sorrows.[12]
　　如果……（这里我也不是非常理解，理解的可以联系我）三分主星彼此有友好相位，第一个和第二个，第二个和第三个，表明杰出的成就，并免于悲伤。
　　
63. Mercury in Pisces, in deep or pitted degrees, [13] makes the native foolish and slow of speech; and if Jupiter shall be in the houses of Mars, in pitted degrees, he will be sordid and needy, and receive hurt from soldiers; but if in the houses of Saturn, chiefly Capricorn, and in such degrees, he will be morose, rigid, and odious to all men.
　　水星在双鱼，在深陷或凹陷度数（看见基督占星一），主其人傻乎乎并讲话慢；如木星在火星的庙座，在凹陷度数，其人肮脏贫困并受到士兵的伤害；如木星在土星的庙座，主要是摩羯，在这个度数，主其人孤僻，严厉，人人憎恶。
　　
64. Mercury in reception of Mars by houses, or if he shall be in aspect of him falling from an angle, the native will be a lover of hunting, and to play at dice and tables: but if they shall not be cadent, he shall prove an excellent soldier.
　　水星以庙接纳火星，或水星在角宫和火星有相位，主其人喜爱打猎，喜欢赌博；如果他们不在果宫，其人将是个杰出的战士。
　　
65. Planets under the Sun's beams, or within twelve degrees thereof, are unfortunate, unless in the same degree with him, but when passed 12 degrees from him (existents orientales)[14] they are fortunate.
　　行星在太阳光束下，或在其
12
度以内，是不幸的，除非和太阳同度，但当远离太阳
12
度外（而东出太阳），他们是幸运的。
　　
66. The North Node with the infortunes denotes terrible mischiefs, for he increases their malice; but with the fortunes he works good, and augments their benignity. But the significations of the Dragon's tail are to be noted the contrary way.
　　北交合凶星表明可怕的祸害，因为他增加凶星的凶性；但如果合吉星，其发挥吉性，增加他们的善举。而龙尾（南交）的含义与之相反。
　　
67. Mercury in the sixth house of a nativity, the native shall change from one religion to another, & will have his felicity in part impedited by reason of his inconstancy.
　　水星在本命盘
6
宫，主其人经常从一个地方换到另一个地方，并将因其不稳定性而使其好运部分流失。
　　
68. The first sign hath pre-eminence in signification, when there be two signs have to do with the thing.[15]
　　当有两个星座都不得不应对时，第一个星座有极其重大的意义。
　　
69. Accept the beginning of every thing from the Moon, but the end from her dispositor.
　　从月亮看每个事情的开始，其定位星看事件的结局。
　　
70. If Jupiter in the revolution of the world shall be in his house, exaltation, or oriental in an angle, and otherwise freed from evil, he signifies plenty, [my author says penury, if time and ill handling have not abused him] of all things.
　　如果木星走到自己的庙，旺，或者在角宫东出，并远离其他凶害，表明所有事物的充裕
[
我的作者说贫困，如果没有错误的使用，滥用的话
]
。
　　
71. When the Moon and lord of the ascendant shall be impedited by the lord of the 8th, the sick person hath cause to fear.
　　当月亮和命主星被
8
宫主刑克，会引起病人的害怕。
　　
72. 'Tis ill to begin any lawsuits or other controversies when the Moon is ill dignified: the plaintiff without doubt will be overcome.
　　当月亮衰弱时，不适合开始任何法律诉讼和其他争论，原告一方毫无疑问的会得胜。
　　
73. All rebellions breaking out at the beginning of the year are not easily suppressed.
　　在年初爆发的所有叛乱是不容易被镇压的。
　　
74. The Moon in ruminating signs joined to retrograde planets, it is not then good to purge; the potion will work upward to the patients injury.
　　月亮在反思的星座合逆行的行星，不适合治疗，药剂会作用病人的伤口。（
!
个人理解是此时会对伤口起反作用。）
　　
75. Oriental planets signifying either good or evil, perform their work speedily; occidental, more slowly.
　　东出的行星要么表明好，要么凶，发挥作用非常快速；西出，比较的慢。
　　
76. The middle stay of a solar eclipse is by the degree of the conjunction of the lights.
　　日食的中间停留是由于光线的重合程度。
　　
77. There will many wars and difficulties happen, when in a revolutional figure of the world, Saturn and Jupiter shall be in their exaltations.
　　当土星和木星在他们的旺相星座，世界将会发生很多战争和磨难。
　　
78. Be wary and circumspect in your judgment, when a fortune is with a malevolent; nor be 
you overconfident that the malice of the infortune shall be averted.
　　当吉星和凶星在一起时，你的判断要非常的小心谨慎，你也不能过于自信凶星的凶性能避免。
　　
79. There are twelve signs, one of which is constantly ascending: the ascendant signifies the body, and the lord thereof the mind. Let not that sign ascend for your purpose, whose lord is impedited.
　　
12
星座，不断的升起：上升星座代表身体，上升主星代表精神。因此，出于自己目的，不要选择主宰星座刑克的上升星座。
　　
80. Planets in fixed signs show the matter durable; in bicorporeal signs, doubtful; in movable, convertible to good or evil.
　　行星在固定星座表明事物耐用持久；在双体星座，不能确定；在本位星座，可以变为好或坏。
　　
81. In matters of secrecy, let not the Moon be combust, but going from combustion.
　　关于秘密的事情，不要让月亮被燃烧，而是从燃烧远离。
　　
82. When the Moon is in a fixed sign, neither cut out, or put on any new garments, chiefly in Leo, for 'tis extreme dangerous: 'tis the same if she be in conjunction or opposition of the Sun, or impedited of the infortunes.[16]
　　当月亮在固定星座，尤其是狮子座，不要扔掉或购买新衣服，因为那是非常危险的；当月亮合或冲太阳，或被凶星刑克时也一样。
　　
83. The Moon hath great power in all questions, except when Leo, Capricorn, or Sagittarius ascend: for either of those signs abate of her significations; chiefly Leo or Aquarius.
　　在所有的问题中，月亮有很大的作用，除了狮子，摩羯或射手在上述时，因为这些星座都会减少月亮的含义；尤其是狮子或水瓶。
　　
84. Saturn is under the Sun beams until he be 15 degrees distant from him. Understand the same of Jupiter.
　　土星在太阳的光束下知道远离他
15
度。木星同样。
　　
85. Refuse the Moon in Cancer or Scorpio for marriages, unless it be in marrying of widows.
　　除非是嫁娶寡妇，对于婚姻，不要让月亮在巨蟹或天蝎。
　　
86. An infortune in his own house or exaltation, and oriental, is better than a fortune retrograde, or impedited.
　　凶星在自己的庙或旺星座，或东出，比吉星逆行或被刑克要好。
　　
87. There will be some impediment about that part of the body represented by that sign which was afflicted at birth.
　　出生时，被刑克的星座代表的身体部位也会有些阻碍。
　　
88. Immense prosperity is portended, when the lords of the triplicity of the luminaries shall have virtue in an angle or succedent house, and be in their proper places, remote from the aspects of the infortunes; and if the lord of the ascendant shall be well seated also, the happiness shall be the more and the greater.
　　当发光体的三分主星幸运的在角宫或续宫，并在自己适当的地方，远离凶星的刑克，预示其人巨大的成功；如果上升的三分主星如此，幸福将更多更大。
　　
89. The aspects of the sextile or trine have the same quality: but the sextile is less forcible than the trine, either in good or evil.
　　六合或拱相位有相同的性质：但是六合没有拱相位有功效，要么吉，要么凶。
　　
90. Saturn performs evil slowly, but Mars swift; and therefore Mars is reputed to hurt more than Saturn.
　　土星发挥其邪恶是缓慢的，火星是快速的；因此火星被认为比土星更有害。
　　
91. When the three superiour planets shall be conjoined in regal signs, it is termed a great conjunction; and when the Sun beholds them, they make most potent and flourishing kingdoms.
　　当外行星在一个帝王的星座合相，被认为是大合相；当太阳合他们入相时，他们早就最强盛的王国。
　　
92. Those doubts are soon resolved, that are propounded when the Moon and the planet to whom she applies are in signs, having voice, and in the first or third houses, or in opposition of them.
　　当月亮和她入相的行星在有生星座，并在第一或
3
宫，或冲他们时，此时提出的那些怀疑很快就会解决。
　　
93. The infortunes in the eighth house have their malice increased; but the benevolents being there, portend neither good nor evil.
　　凶星在
8
宫，其凶性增加；但是吉星在哪里，预示不吉也不凶。
　　
94. There will neither good or evil be performed, but when the good or bad planets in a nativity or shall aspect the Moon by a quadrate.
　　当在本命或
revolution
（这个不知道是推运中的还是世俗占星的？）中，当吉星或凶星刑月亮，即不会发生好事，也不会发生糟糕的事。
　　
95. If Mercury be afflicted in the sixth house, the native shall die in prison: if Saturn shall be in the twelfth, and Venus in the eighth, he shall end his days by precipitation.
　　如果水星在
6
宫被刑克，其人将死于监狱。如果土星在
12
宫，金星在
8
宫，主其人死于坠落。
　　
96. When the Sun in the daytime, and the Moon in the night, in the beginning of any sickness, is impedited, the person is to be feared.
　　当生命主，白天的太阳，夜里的月亮被刑克，主其人将非常担心害怕。
　　
97. The significations of the stars are always varied, as they vary in their configurations and latitudes.
　　行星的象征含义总是多变的，因为他们的相位构造和纬度不停的变化。
　　
98. The Moon in the fourth, seventh, ninth or twelfth houses shows the true cause of the question propounded: the same is known by her separation from Mercury. And if the ascendant and Moon shall be in double-bodied signs, the cause of the question is confirmed.
　　月亮在
4,7,9
或
12
宫表明提出问题的真实原因：也可以从月亮和水星的分离相位知道。如果上升和月亮在双体星座，问题的起因是确定的（为什么呢？）。
　　
99. An infortune in his house or exaltation denotes the matter by him signified to come to a good end, but with delays: but if he shall be impedited in the ascendant, though in his house or exaltation, the matter will be obstructed, and come to an ill end.
　　凶星在其庙或旺表明其象征的事物有好的结果，但是有延迟和拖沓。如果在命宫被刑克，即使如庙或旺，事情也要遭阻碍，一个不好的结局。
　　
100. The event of every enterprise that is doubtful, is terminated by these significators, viz., by the fourth house and his lord, and the planet strong in the same; also by the light of the time and the lord thereof; and by the planet, and his dispositor to whom the said light of the time is conjoined.
　　所有不确定的事物，最终由这些象征星决定，即
4
宫和
4
宫主，尊贵强有力的星，其相位和定位星，及同他和他的定位星有相位的行星。
　　
[- The End of Hermes his 100 Aphorisms-]
　　
附录：
　　
1. 
A planet that qualifies as the hyleg is considered to have the greatest influence upon the length of life. Such a planet would need to be in one of the qualifying places, as detailed in the glossary item of Hyleg <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/gl/hyleg.html>. This aphorism is suggesting that where there is no hyleg, we look for signs of support from the Sun or Moon.
　　
2.
 
It is a traditional principle that superior planets are resistant to the effects of inferior planets, but inferiors are very impressionable to the influence of superiors. Since Venus is an inferior planet, and the two traditional malefics (Mars and Saturn) superior, Venus cannot hope to produce the moderation of effect that Jupiter can.
　　
3.
 
This aphorism demonstrates how many of these short comments were extracted from lengthier discussions in older texts without conveying the full philosophical principles. We find a more informative source to these comments, for example, in chap 7 of the 2nd century Thesaurus of Antiochus: "Concerning exaltations and depressions".
　　
Venus is said to be exalted in the place that Mercury experiences fall (Pisces), and Mercury is exalted where Venus experiences fall (Virgo), because Mercury "is the master of arguments" while Venus "is the overseer of desire and intercourse". So "where the intellectual increases, there the desire and pleasure in intercourse is depressed. And where the appetitive and pleasurable is exalted, there the intellectual is depressed".
　　
Mars is exalted where Jupiter experiences fall (Capricorn), and Jupiter is exalted where Mars experiences fall (Cancer), because Jupiter "is the overseer of the life-breath and abundance" whilst Mars "is the overseer of death". Hence "where the life-breath increases, there the bringer of death is depressed; and where death increases, there life is depressed".
　　
Antiochus gives similar treatment to the Sun and Saturn because the Sun is the master of heat and day, whilst Saturn signifies dark and cold. The Sun is exalted in Aries where Saturn experiences its fall, and Saturn is exalted in Libra where the Sun experiences fall. Antiochus adds that the Moon is the "fortune of all" and so "whom fortunes exalts, no one may depress; while he whom fortune depresses, no one is able to exalt".
　　
So the source of this aphorism is clearly very ancient, but we should also note how little of the original philosophy remains in the celebrated aphorism.
　　
Antiochus, The Thesaurus, trans. R. Schmidt, ed. R. Hand. Project Hindsight Greek Track Vol. II-B. Berkeley Springs: Golden Hind Press, 1993.
　　
4.
 
Rustics = ordinary, country people.
　　
5.
 
The signs of short ascension: Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus and Gemini.
　　
6.
 
The double-bodied signs: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces.
　　
7.
 
In other words, treat the chart as a decumbiture, where the health and body of the sick person is represented by the first house.
　　
8.
 
The feminine, nocturnal qualities of the Moon, and her propensity for quick changes, gives the Moon a sense of wandering without purpose. So it was often sought to avoid the Moon being too powerful in important matters, or journeys where someone could get lost. For the same reason aphorism 23 rejects Cancer on the ascendant.
　　
9.
 
According to the most common representation of the table of essential dignities, the north node is exalted in the 3rd degree of Gemini; the south node in the 3rd degree of Sagittarius.
　　
10.
 
A pertinent aphorism for those who maintain that in ancient astrology, aspects were principally calculated according to sign relationships.
　　
11.
 
Imperant (or commanding) signs are: Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo and Virgo
　　
Obedient signs are: Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces.
　　
sin autem contra, dic contra = in other cases, the opposite.
　　
12.
 
This is referrring to the older triplicity rulership scheme, which considers three planetary rulers for each triplicity. For more information see The Classical Use of Triplicities <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/triplicities.html> by Deborah Houlding.
　　
13.
 
Deep or pitted degrees (which are the same) are shown in the table of traditional degree influences <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/deginf1.html>.
　　
14.
 
Becoming oriental.
　　
15.
 
Ie, when signification is taken from a house, and the house contains more than one sign, priority is given to the sign on the cusp.
16.
 
It's not clear why it should be so dangerous to put on new garments when the Moon is in Leo, but this rule is also contained in Ptolemy's Centiloquium <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/centiloquium1.html>, as aphorism 22.
　　
注释和参考
　　
1.
 
能胜任生命主的行星是对寿命有最大影响力的行星。这样的行星需要落在其中一个胜任的地方，细节参考生命主的定义。这个警句的建议是没有生命主的时候，看太阳或月亮的星座。
　　
2.
 
传统的规则认为外行星会抵制内行星的影响，但是内行星非常敏感，容易受到外行星的影响。既然金星是内行星，并两大传统凶星（火星和土星）是外行星，金星不可能产生适度的影响而木星可以。
　　
3.
 
这个警句说明很多这些短的评论是从古书冗长的讨论中提取出来的，而没有传达其哲学规则。我们发现关于这些评论一些更有益的来源，举个例子，
 2
世纪
Antiochus
的宝典
Thesaurus
的第七章。
　　金星被认为旺相在水星弱势的地方，水星旺在金星弱势的地方，因为水星是
“
辩论的能手
”
，然后金星是
“
欲望和性交的监督
”
。因此，
“
理性增加的地方，性交的欲望和快乐就被压制了。食欲和享乐旺的地方，理智就被压制了。
”
　　火星旺相在木星弱势的地方，木星旺相在火星弱陷的地方，因为木星是
“
生命呼吸和充裕的监督
”
，而火星是
“
死亡的监督
”
。因此
“
生命呼吸增强的地方，死亡的带来者就被压制了。死亡增加的地方，生命就被压制了。
”
　　
Antiochus
对太阳和土星给出了相同的处理，因为太阳是热和白天的主人，土星表示黑暗和寒冷。太阳旺相白羊，土星弱势的地方，土星旺相天秤，太阳弱陷的地方。他还增加了月亮是
“
一切好运
”
，因此，
“
其旺的时候，没有谁被压制，当其好运被压制的时候，没有人能旺。
”
　　因此这些警句的来源非常明显是古代的，但是我们也注意到最初哲学保留在著名的警句中的是多么少。
　　
Antiochus, The Thesaurus, trans. R. Schmidt, ed. R. Hand. Project Hindsight Greek Track Vol. II-B. Berkeley Springs: Golden Hind Press, 1993.
　　
4.
 
Rustics
表示普通的，乡村的人们。
　　
5.
 
短上升星座：摩羯，水瓶，双鱼，白羊，金牛和双子。
　　
6.
 
双体星座：双子，处女，射手和双鱼。
　　
7.
 
换句胡说，把星盘看做一个病理，这里病人的健康和身体由
1
宫来代表。
　　
8.
 
月亮阴性，黑夜的性质和快速变化的习性，给月亮一种漫无目的游走的感觉。因此在重要的事件，旅行等这些容易丢失的，经常尽量避免月亮太强，同样的原因，警句
23
避免月亮在上升。
　　
9.
 
根据最常见有代表性的必然尊贵表，北交旺在双子
3
°，南交旺仔射手
3
°。
　　
10.
 
对于古典占星中坚持相位主要依据星座关系计算的人来说，是一句非常中肯的警句。
　　
11.
 
命令星座：白羊，金牛，双子，巨蟹，狮子和处女。服从星座：天秤，天蝎，射手，摩羯，水瓶和双鱼。
　　
12.
 
这是讲比较古老的三分主宰关系，三个行星守护每个同元素星座。
　　
13
.
 
深陷或凹陷度数，可以查表格。
　　
14.
 
变成东出。
　　
15.
 
例如，当象征从一个宫取时，且这个宫包括不止一个星座，优先考虑宫头所在星座。
　　
16.
 
不清楚为什么月亮在狮子，穿心衣服会这么危险。但这条规则也包括在
Ptolemy's Centiloquium <http://www.skyscript.co.uk/centiloquium1.html>
，第
22
条。