2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   1 / 13
2016 Nodoor  Core Course Level Five
Lesson 2: TRANSITS continued…
© www.nodoor.com
Planetary Stations
Stationary retrograde SRx
Stationary direct SD
Planetary Stations, traditionally
called “standings,” are very
important.  You should
memorize the major planetary
stations, like Pluto, Neptune, Uranus and
Saturn for the next several years, Jupiter,
Mars and Venus, for the next 2 years, and
Mercury for the next year.  This will really
help you to spot key periods of a person’s
development.
Look ahead in your Ephemeris
for every R or D for each planet.
This partial page on the right is
for April 2016.   What two
planets do you see turning
retrograde?   Memorize the sign and degree
of the R or D, and memorize the date!  Now
look at the full page of your Ephemeris for
April to check the dates and see what other
planet is also turning R?  (Remember an R at the
top of the column means the planet is still retrograde.)
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   2 / 13
Let’s review Transit priorities before we begin to analyze a new chart.
PRIORITIES of TRANSITING PLANETS COMPARED TO NATAL
Transit
Priority 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
8
8
9
Natal
ASC
MC
You can copy this table if you like and use it to mark transits for practice.  This will
help you to get used to prioritizing transits until it becomes automatic.  These
priorities help you to explain trends to people by discussing the long term trends
first and slowly working your way towards the shorter term trends, especially
those faster moving planets that act as a trigger for longer term cycles.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   3 / 13
Let’s study the transits in the life of actress Angelina Jolie in 2013, during the difficult
period when she chose 3 Medical Procedures: 1. preliminary 2. mastectomy 3.
reconstructive surgery.  But as always let’s first look at her natal chart and become
more familiar with what’s implied about her story.
Angelina’s decision to go very public about her
medical choice is already saving lives by
encouraging other women with a similar
diagnosis to undergo this preventative
procedure.  What in her natal chart would
suggest she would take such a stand?  What
implies she would act upon her principles?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   4 / 13
1. Preliminary: The bi-wheel chart above shows the natal chart of Angelina Jolie in
the center with transits for her first medical procedure in the outer wheel.  On
Feb. 2, 2013 starting at 8:00 a.m. in Los Angeles, California, Jolie had a procedure
aimed at preserving her nipples, which usually are removed when a mastectomy
is done to treat breast cancer. Half of the skin is lifted from the surface of the
breast tissue and a small disc of tissue is taken to be checked for cancer.  No
cancer cells were found.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   5 / 13
2. Double mastectomy: The bi-wheel above shows the natal chart of Angelina Jolie in the
center with the transits for her double mastectomy on February 16, 2013 at 8:00 a.m. in Los
Angeles, California in the outer wheel.  What do you notice about these transits?
“My doctors estimated that I had an 87% risk of breast cancer and
a 50% risk of ovarian cancer, although the risk is different in the
case of each woman. Once I knew that this was my reality, I
decided to be proactive and to minimize the risk as much I could. I
made a decision to have a preventive double mastectomy. For any
woman reading this, I hope it helps you to know you have options.
I want to encourage every woman, especially if you have a family
history of breast or ovarian cancer, to seek out the information
and medical experts who can help you through this aspect of your
life, and to make your own informed choices.”
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   6 / 13
3. Reconstructive Surgery: The bi-wheel above shows Angelina Jolie’s natal chart
in the center wheel and the transits of her reconstructive surgery for April 27,
2013 at 8:00 a.m. in Los Angeles, California in the outer wheel.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   7 / 13
The tri-wheel chart above shows Angelina Jolie’s natal chart in the center, with the transits of
her first procedure in the middle wheel, and her last procedure of reconstructive surgery in the
outer wheel.  Notice how the transits have moved throughout this time frame.  Draw a line on
the chart wheel so you can more easily see the movements of the planets.  Observe how Mars
has moved and the transit of Pluto, which went Retrograde on April 12, 2013.  What do you
notice about the transit of Uranus?
The following 4 Ephemeris pages show the transits for January,
February, March and April 2013.  Study these pages and see what else
you notice relative to this pivotal period in Angelina’s life.  Use these
pages to enhance your awareness of the flow of these trends.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   8 / 13
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   9 / 13
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   10 / 13
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   11 / 13
After focusing on serious and heavy trend issues and developments, let’s shift to
the “lighter side” of life.   Here are a couple of astrology cartoons that reflect
transits in the lives of these young woman.  Each cartoon offers some insight
regarding the transit mentioned.  Enjoy!
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   12 / 13
So, my 7th House Sun in Gemini is being squared by
transiting Neptune, and I know dating two guys at the
same time can be confusing anyway, but the other day I
called “Di” “Li” by mistake at the wrong moment!  Do
you think with Saturn in Sagittarius retrograding back
to oppose my Sun I will finally tell them the truth?
When I met Tian
I had transiting
Neptune squaring
my Venus!
I remember her
saying Tian was the
man of her dreams,
but he forgot to
mention his other
girlfriend.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 2   13 / 13
Think about keeping a TRANSIT DIARY!  You could write or draw in a notebook or
even make notes in your iPhone “pages."  This is a good way to learn about
transits and get a better real life feel for them.  Also, you can use Nodoor’s free
calendar app to do this.
I think you’ll find that if you keep a transit diary that you’ll learn to see the
shorter term transits really express themselves in a variety of ways in your life,
especially transits of the Moon, Sun, Mercury, Venus and Mars.  Plus you’ll
see how issues become more emphasized when fast transits trigger longer
term transits.