2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 10  1 / 3
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 10
Career Demonstration
© www.nodoor.com
Name: Diana
Birth Information:
Dec.15, 1990
02:30 a.m. (Within half an hour deviation)
Xichang, Szechuan/Sichuan, China
ASC: Libra11°24, MC: Cancer11°51. (in Kepler)
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 10  2 / 3
Transits for June 7, 2016 in outer wheel, natal in center wheel.
Professional background:
I graduated from a college in Australia in early 2014, and got Bachelor’s Degree of Finance. After I
came back to China, I got seriously hurt in a relationship. I remain unemployed till now. After I came
back from Australia, I got jobs in insurance and medicine related fields, but those jobs didn’t last
long. When I went abroad to study, I took my family’s suggestion to choose finance as my major.
However, I gradually discovered that I didn’t like finance, and I was not suitable to do that kind of
job. (Or maybe that’s just my excuse of not committing myself to the financial industry.)
Anyhow, in my deep heart, I never want to be restricted by a nine-to-five job with great pressure.
Subconsciously, I want to start my own business which will give me some freedom and is some kind
of quality business. For instance, a fine tea house where the customers could have some tea, chat
with each other and exchange their ideas on antiques. (Or maybe that is some kind of subconscious
self-consolation because I haven’t worked for a long time and I am afraid of working.)
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 10  3 / 3
Current Situation:
I cannot and don’t want to rely on my parents any longer. Therefore, I call up all my courage and
determine to lead my life back on track. As my major is finance, and the salary of the financial
industry is relatively high, I recently prepare to enter the securities industry and begin to have some
practical study and development. However, I still feel some uncertain, puzzled and nervous.
In the meantime, I had my spine corrected for the sake of physique in Shijiazhuang，Hebei province.
I became good friends with the founder of that program. They had operated their business for 9
years. They planned to extend their business last year, and opened their first branch store in Beijing.
They promised to give me the management rights in Sichuan Province if their business went
smoothly. So last year I went to Beijing to have a deep-level study and investigation. Maybe
because of their lack of experience and some other reasons, their business didn’t go well. It seemed
impossible to open a branch store in Chengdu, Sichuan Province, so I came back.
This month when I finally determined to give up all my plans and start to work for a few years, the
founder called me and told me that we could consider cooperation now. I had some doubts as to
this. Should I totally give up the idea of running a branch store and start to work, or have some
other plans?
Subconsciously, I want to do something I like in the future. However, I don’t have any financial
supply without my parents’ support. I think the financial industry is an industry where the salary is
relatively high and I can earn some money in a short time. Maybe I should earn money first, and
after I have some savings and relationships with other people, a few years later I can reconsider my
dream/ideal? Besides, if I entered the securities industry and learnt deeply for a long time, I would
also master some knowledge on investment and financing, which would be beneficial to my future
life. All these make me afraid and puzzled. I don’t know if I’m suitable to do that kind of job, and if
my decision is right.
Now compared with my friends and classmates, I’m full of puzzle and fear. They are all on the right
track of life, with decent jobs, good girlfriends/boyfriends, and some of them even get married. Yet,
I remain in a kind of swirl. I summon my courage, and plan to get started. I have been depraved for
a few years, just like being in prison for a few years, which makes me really fearful and flustered.
I’m eager to know what I can do, what I’m suitable to do, and how to accelerate the progress of my
life, saving twists and turns, as I fall behind my counterparts for too long a time.