2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  1 / 9
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five
Lesson 17 Composite Charts
© www.nodoor.com
Composite charts are constructed from the midpoints between two natal charts.  For
example, the midpoint between the Sun in Angelina Jolie’s natal chart and the Sun in
Brad Pitt’s natal chart can be calculated by hand as follows:
Brad Pitt’s Sun is
25
52’ or:  9th Sign 25 degrees and 52 minutes
Angelina’s Sun is
13
25’ or: + 3rd Sign 13 degrees and 25 minutes
Add these two together:
12th Sign 38 degrees and 77 minutes
Divide by 2:
12th Sign 38 degrees and 77 minutes ÷ 2 = 6th Sign 19 degrees and 38.5 minutes
Calculated Composite Sun appears to be 19 degrees Virgo 38.5 minutes.  However, at this point you
have to ask the question: Is this the shorter midpoint angle?  Let’s see…
25
52’
25
52’
25
52’
13
25’
19
39’
25
52’
Therefore, even though the formula yielded 6th Sign or Virgo, the “shorter midpoint” angle is Pisces.
Thus the correct Composite Chart Sun is
19
39’
In all cases use the shorter midpoint angle when calculating Composite Planets and Houses, EXCEPT
for
Mercury and
Venus
Mercury and Venus are NEVER very far from the Sun, they can NEVER oppose the Sun from a
geocentric perspective.  To keep Mercury and or Venus in line with this “rule,” always make sure
that the Sun is calculated correctly first.  Then make sure that neither Mercury nor Venus is on the
opposite side of the chart from the Sun.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  2 / 9
“This is where I differ from standard texts, so make sure on a Professional Exam
that you explain ‘why’ you would consider Mercury and Venus differently.  If asked
to calculate Mercury or Venus in a Composite Chart on an exam for any professional
organization, calculate it for the “short midpoint,” but mention in parenthesis that
you were taught to correct Mercury or Venus anytime they were on the opposite
side of the chart from the Sun and explain why.” DR
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie’s Composite Chart – showing Venus issue
Note that in Brad and
Angelina’s Composite Chart
that Venus is on the opposite
side of the Sun in their
computer generated
composite chart.  This cannot
happen in a chart, so I would
actually consider Venus to be
at 25 Aries 49’ in the 7th
House, rather than 25 Libra 49’
in the 1st House.
“However, my views on this do
not fit the standard way of
considering a Composite Chart,
though I have found this more
descriptive in the many cases I
have seen.  So keep this in
mind on other professional
exams.” DR
Otherwise, everything else between the two natal charts is divided this
way, using the short midpoints including the house cusps.  If there is a
discrepancy between the ASC and the MC, always set the Composite
Chart Houses in accordance with the short angle Midpoint ASC.
Most computer programs will do this for you with one click.  However,
make sure you ask for midpoints on the house cusps, and not a “derived
ASCN” for midpoint birth latitude, etc.  I’ve seen no evidence to support
the derived ASCN for midpoint birth latitude as meaningful.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  3 / 9
Composite Chart Knowledge Points
 A Composite Chart is NOT an indicator of compatibility
 A Composite Chart symbolizes the issues and features of a
relationship
 A Composite Chart is therefore REPRESENTATIVE of the relationship
 A Composite Chart represents BOTH PEOPLE
 You cannot divide the chart into man and woman, meaning the Sun
and Mars do not just represent the man, but the male issues of both
people, likewise the Moon and Venus represent female issues of
both people
 You interpret the chart using the same procedure as a Natal Chart
 Priorities and the aspect orbs are the same as a Natal Chart
 However the chart is now interpreted as “We” “Our” or “Both”
 The relationship is an entity unto itself – like a person
 The ASC represents the personality of the relationship, the
appearance of the couple
 The DSC characterizes features and issues of how they relate, share
and interact.
 The 2nd house is how they spend money as a couple or financial
issues they have as a couple
 The 8th house is still “joint resources” and characterizes their
intimacy challenges and issues.
 You can use transits with a Composite Chart just like to a natal
chart.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  4 / 9
Let’s take another look at Brad and Angelina’s Composite Chart:
What are some of the outstanding features of this chart and what does
this suggest about the dynamics of their relationship?  Remember, a
Composite Chart symbolizes the characteristics of a relationship.  Both
people are represented in the Composite Chart.  As a chart, it can stand
alone as a diagram that is indicative of basic relationship themes.
Notice the prominent Uranus conjunct the ASC and opposite Mercury.
Venus is either closely trine Mars and semi-sextile Pluto, or if you put
Venus in Aries, closely sextile Mars and quincunx Pluto; think about
what this implies.
The ASC is quincunx Saturn in the 8th house and quincunx the Moon in
the 5th house. Also, consider the overall theme of the chart in terms of
the Lunar Nodes.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  5 / 9
What features of their natal charts do you see played out in their Composite chart?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  6 / 9
Family Entertainment couple– Composite Chart
Study the features of this Composite Chart.   Jupiter and Saturn are in Capricorn in
the 10th house, a fitting combination for a couple that works together.  Notice that
the Moon is opposite Uranus in the 5th house and square the Moon – even Neptune
is widely square the Moon and opposite Mars.  Consider how this combination
correlates with the early challenge of health problems with their daughter, and
their unusual response as a couple to these circumstances.  Think about how the
Lunar Nodes show the theme of their relationship story in terms of both sign and
house position.   Look at some of the close aspects in this chart, such as Venus in
Taurus in the 2nd house closely trine Saturn in the 10th, or Mars in Taurus trine
Jupiter in the 10th house.  The Sun in Aries in the 1st house is square Saturn, and this
is a very hard working couple.  The ASC is square their 10th house Jupiter befitting
their public enthusiasm.  The ASC is quincunx Neptune, emphasizing the Neptune’s
role.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  7 / 9
Husband of Family Entertainment couple:
Wife of Family Entertainment couple:
Look at these natal charts and think about how they relate to the composite.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  8 / 9
Daughter of Family Entertainment couple:
This girl was born with speech and hearing impairment.  Notice Mercury is square Uranus and
Neptune, indicating the potential for an anomaly that could impact speech and hearing.  (Mercury
is the key planet associated with “perception” and communication.)  She would recover from
numerous surgeries and join her parent’s entertainment act, becoming the lively little girl dancing
and eventually singing on stage.  She even wrote one of their songs at an early age.  Hence her
10th house Mercury would play out despite her health challenges.  Her life path is obviously
meant to be very intense with so many planets gathered around the North Node in Scorpio.  Her
biggest issue has been friends and belonging, since her travelling life style in entertainment has
taken her out of school and the normal routine of a young person.  She has often felt ostracized in
groups, and had to learn how to handle confrontation with peers regarding her public visibility.
Her close friends mean everything to her, and she feels a great loss and sense of betrayal when
friendships are disappointing.  Yet she is very giving with her friends, and loyal.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 17  9 / 9
Composite Chart of daughter with mother:
Composite Chart of daughter with father:
What patterns do you notice in these composite charts?  What insights do you gain about her
relationship with each parent?  Think about her natal chart in terms of her parents when
compared to these composite charts.