2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  1/9
2016 Nodoor Core Course  Level Five
Lesson 22  ISAR CERTIFICATION PROGRAM and COMPETENCY EXAM
© www.nodoor.com
The entire ISAR Certification Program is designed to elevate
competency and professionalism in the field of astrology.  There are 5
modules to the ISAR.CAP designation, as follows:
I.
That a prescribed body of knowledge be required.
II.
A 20-Hour Consulting Skills Course
III.
A 4 Hour Ethics Course and Test
IV.
Proof of knowledge of 3 Elective astrological subjects to show
versatility in application of astrological principles
V.
A final 6-Hour Competency Exam
An explanation of the program can be found on the ISAR website:
isarastrology.com
EXPLANATION
ISAR CERTIFICATION EXAM OUTLINE
1).
Fundamental Educational Requirements
1. An overview of astrology including History of Astrology
Since this is a vast study unto itself it is suggested that one read
History of Horoscopic Astrology, James H. Holden (From Babylonian to the
present time)
A basic understanding of the various applications of
Basic astronomy as applied to Astrology
Calculations of the birth chart, Secondary Progressions,  Solar  Returns and
Solar Arc
Symbolism
Computer skills as applied to entering and extracting chart data
Familiarity with Ephemerides and various Astrological Tables.
2.  Natal Chart Interpretation, including specific areas of focus.
3.  Forecasting Skills, namely Progressions and Directions including
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  2/9
Secondary, Solar Arc, Return Charts, Transits, Eclipses and
Lunations.
4. Synastry and relationships including chart comparison, composite
charts, family patterns, other relationships, and group dynamics.
EXPLANATION:
SECTION I (Of the Exam)
Section I comprises of 275 questions that are divided between True/False and
Multiple Choice.  They are taken directly from the Section 1). 1. listed above
History of Astrology:  There aren't too many questions on History (see suggested
book) but there may be such questions such as....
The first Textbook of Astrology was written by (a name would be put in here for
T/F)
A question on who or which culture listed constellations that correspond to the
12 months.
Historical philosophical systems that blended with astrological principles such as
Hellenistic, Aristotelianism, Hermeticism.  This is not hugely important so don’t
spend much time with it.  You could put the following phrase into Google:
“Philosophical Systems as applied to Astrology”
Basic understanding of various applications of Astrology:
This is just simply knowing that astrology has various applications such as
- moving the natal chart forward to any given time
- observing political, societal, weather and geophysical studies as in
mundane
astrology.  No detailed questions asked in this regard.
- medical application.  No detailed questions asked in this regard.
- horary, electional, events.  No detailed questions asked in this regard.
Basic astronomy as applied to Astrology.  The following are suggestions but not
necessarily on the exam.
Question on LMT as it differs from time zones
Various definitions such as Sidereal Time, Ecliptic, Cazimi, etc.
A definition of the Vertex may be given asking T/F
Moon's Draconic Period
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  3/9
Terms such as perigee and/or apogee
Planets that rise or set before or after the sun
Length of Retrograde periods for various planets
Occultation
Lunations and Eclipses
Calculation of the birth chart, secondary progressions, solar returns and solar
arcs
The exam does NOT ask for a full calculation but there are a number of
questions based on the calculations which could only be answered if one
actually knew the process.  These questions might include:
Position of a retrograde planet in relationship to the Sun when in a retrograde
position.
A question or two based on understanding of Southern Latitude and Eastern
Hemisphere charts.
Houses being more equal or unequal near the equator or in northerly/southerly
directions.
Long and short Ascension signs
House systems.
Tools required to calculate a chart.
Symbolism (astrological)
This is a broad topic that is covered extensively.
Defining the various Elements might be given in either T/F framework or multiple
choice.  In the M/C category, it will clearly indicate how well one understands the
symbolism because more than one answer may apply.
For instance, 4 definitions might be given for a South Node in Sagittarius.
One, two, three, or all may apply.
Descriptions might be given that pertains to a certain house definition which may
be listed in a multiple choice question.
Definition and meaning of lunations
Different types of eclipses and their seasons
Computer skills
There would likely only be a couple of questions in this area that might ask how to
determine if the chart on the screen is correct according to time.
Anyone who uses a computer would not have any trouble with these selections.
Familiarity with Ephemerides and various astrological tables.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  4/9
One could be asked to define the use of a Table of Houses or any of the other
tools used in calculating a chart.  Anybody who has calculated charts would not
have any problem with any of these questions.
SECTION II (of the Exam)
A. This section involves short answer questions explaining various terms or
concepts such as Intercepted Signs, a Solar Chart, Description of the Moon’s
Nodes, etc.
A question may involve describing a given aspect between Chart A and Chart B in
a compatibility analysis.
Making a list of planetary standings
One may be asked to give a brief analysis of a chart that has no earth but is
endowed with fire and air.
One may be asked to define 3 effects of a Fixed Grand Square.
Give 3 possible effects of 12th house Saturn in a natal chart
B.  The chart of a known personality is given.
Applicant will be asked to list the aspects indicating a particular known quality of
that person.  All required information is given except the answer.
SECTION III
This is the Section of the exam where many marks are lost due to not thoroughly
reading the question and indicating precisely what is being asked.  Answers must
be supported by planet in sign, house, house(s) ruled, aspect patterns, dispositors,
and such links throughout the chart.
A.  Natal Chart Questions
The chart is given. Questions only refer to specific parts of the chart.
B.  Synastry
Two charts are supplied from an actual case situation with no names or birth data.
Questions are based on ability to understand the dynamics of Synastry including
suggestions on how some of the issues could be handled or worked out.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  5/9
There are 4 questions.
One question would pertain to an aspect or pattern in his chart concerning
challenges he may face in a relationship.
The next question pertains to an aspect or pattern in her chart concerning
challenges she may face in a relationship.
The next 2 questions pertain to the blending of the two charts/personalities and
challenges they face in their relationship.
C. SOLAR RETURN
Charts are supplied.  Due to the different approaches to setting these charts up, it
is given in 2 formats on the exam.
Firstly, the two charts are shown separately on one sheet.
Secondly, a 2 wheel chart is presented showing the Solar Return on the inner
wheel, and Natal Chart on the outer wheel.
The Solar Return took place at the birth location in order to avoid the controversy
about location of a Solar Return chart.
The essay question here pertains to interpreting the important issues for the year.
D.  SECONDARY PROGRESSION QUESTIONS
A 3 wheel chart is given with natal on the inside, secondary on 2nd wheel, and
transits in the 3rd wheel.
There are 12 questions involving the understanding of a secondary progression as
pertaining to this particular example.  The following questions would be typical.
- Determine the approximate date when a Progressed Moon reaches a certain
aspect.
- Did any planet changed direction since birth, and how it may manifest in the life.
- What is the progressed lunation phase?
- List the planetary activity at time the chart was cast.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  6/9
ISAR COMPETENCY EXAM Sample Terms and Questions
The ISAR Competency Exam is designed to test both the breadth and scope of
general knowledge, as well as its application in interpretation.  The following is a
list of terms deemed important within that body of knowledge that may appear
on the exam.
The Gregorian Calendar
Local Mean Time
Greenwich Mean Time
Logarithms in Calculation
Hellenistic Astrology
Planet out-of-bounds
Apogee & Perigee
Adjusted Calculation Date
Vertex
Signs of Short and Long Ascension
Declination
Planetary Patterns
Sidereal Time
Ascending & Descending Signs
Fruitful Signs
Zenith
Planetary Cycles
Planetary Ingresses
Parallel of Declination
Contra-Parallel of Declination
Meaning of Retrogrades
Periods of Planetary Retrogrades
Major & Minor Aspects
Calculated Sidereal Time
Occultation
Moon Void of Course
Dispositors
Peregrine
Negative & Positive Signs
Morning and Evening Stars
Greenwich Mean Time
Major Planetary Conjunctions
Antiscion
Phases of the Moon
Moon Speed Variation
Critical Degrees
House cusp Systems
Revolution of each planet
Ecliptic
Celestial Sphere
Applying & Separating Aspects Cazimi
Dwadashamsa
Decanates
Solstices
Houses of Triplicities
Interceptions
Formula for Fortuna
Primal Triad
Return Charts
Solar Arc Progression
Primary Directions
Eclipse Seasons
Solar Return Charts
Secondary Progressed Moon
Composite Chart
Synastry
Kinds of relationship charts
Planets in Relationship Charts Moon Increasing or Decreasing in Light
Azimuth
Eclipse Seasons
Solar Chart
Moon’s Nodes
Planetary Stations
Heliocentric Zodiac
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  7/9
Planetary Standings
Diurnal & Nocturnal positions
Benefic & Malefic
Applying & Separating Aspects
Arabian Parts
Critical Degrees
Various Coordinate Systems
An Electional Chart
Ephemeris
Table of Houses
Masculine & Feminine Signs
Galactic Center
Geocentric
Inferior & Superior Planets
Imum  Coeli
Medium Coeli
Lunation
Mutual Reception
Luminaries
Synodic Month
Syzygy
Nadir
Partile
Precession of the Equinoxes
Prime Vertical
Ptolemaic Aspects
Quadrant
Saros Cycles
TYPICAL QUESTIONS IN THE TRUE & FALSE CATEGORY
(In order to properly answer any T & F Question, one must read the question
carefully)
1.  Mercury goes Retrograde 3 times a year for 1 month.  (F)
2.  The Mid-Heaven in a chart is the Southern Angle (T)
3.  A Yod pattern is composed of a sextile and two sesquiquadrates.  (F)
4.  Peregrine means closest to the earth.  (F)
5.  Pets and their care are shown by the 5th House.  (F)
6.  A Mars Return Chart should be calculated each year (F)
7.  If you had a Sun at 10 degrees of a sign and Uranus at 22 degrees of a sign, by
Secondary Progression they would conjunct at age 12.  (T)
8.  The major relationship houses are 3, 7 & 11.  (T)
9.  Generally speaking Moon to Venus aspects in a relationship chart are favorable
because they enjoy being together.  (T)
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  8/9
10.  Composite Sun in the 9th house would indicate one person dominates the
other. (F)
TYPICAL QUESTIONS IN THE MULTIPLE CHOICE CATEGORY:
(More than one answer may apply)
1.  To hand calculate a natal chart we need
a) To calculate the Local Mean Time
b) A daily ephemeris
c) An adjusted calculation date
d) The Greenwich time equivalent
Answer:  (a), (b), (d)
2.  The function of the Table of Houses is as follows:
a) Gives us planetary positions
b) Gives us the 12 house cusps
c) Tells us which signs are intercepted
d) Helps us find the Greenwich Mean Time
Answer:  (b) (c)
3.  Mercury and Venus are trine to each other:
a) Once a year
b) Every 6 months
c) Every 2 years
d) None of the above
Answer:  (d)
4.  Pick the aspect(s) between 2 charts that could indicate a close relationship
a) All Venus aspects
b) Mercury in Aries in one chart and Mercury in Virgo in the other
c) A trine between Sun and Mars
d) Venus in one chart in opposition to Saturn I the other
Answer:  (a)  (c)
TYPICAL QUESTIONS IN THE SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS
1.  What is a Solar Arc Direction and how is it ascertained
2.  What is the Sun’s greatest distance from the Celestial Equator?
3.What is the significance of a retrograde planet.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 22  9/9
4.  What is the harmonic of the quintile aspect and how many degrees is it?
5.  What are the dynamics between a Mars square Saturn in a natal chart aspect?
TYPICAL QUESTIONS IN THE DELINEATION SECTION:
NATAL CHART:
Select and describe in 3 or 4 paragraphs, at least 3 significant aspects or
configurations  in the chart that demand attention.  Answers need to be
supported by planet in sign, house, house ruled, aspect patterns, dispositorships,
and links throughout the chart.
SYNASTRY:
You would likely be asked about a pattern in one chart and how it manifests in
terms of needs or desires in a relationship for that person and how it inter plays
with the partner’s chart.
In a consultation situation, you may be asked to give suggestions that would help
them understand their dynamics.
SOLAR RETURN CHART:
This chart is presented  in 2 different formats.  Firstly both natal and Return charts
are given on the same page as individual charts.  Then another presentation is
given showing the Solar Return on the inner wheel and Natal Chart on the outer
wheel.  You can use either chart presentation for your answers, or create your
own from the single chart presentations.  To avoid controversy, the chart
presented is based upon natal chart location and the Solar Return occurred at the
same location.
You will likely be asked for the important issues in the upcoming year.
SECONDARY PROGRESSION 3 WHEEL CHART WITH TRANSITS:
You would have to understand how the Secondary Progression works in order to
answer the questions.  Questions on transit positions are also asked.
The following is a typical question:
1.  Name 5 progressed aspects within 1  degree orb.
2.  What year did the progressed Mid-Heaven move into the next sign?