2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 1 / 13
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 21
A Brief History of Astrology Different Branches of Astrology
©  www.nodoor.com
Geocentric Tropical Astrology – is technically the system of astrology used in the west.
This term can be applied to many different branches of astrology in the west, and simply
refers to “Geocentric,” i.e. Earth centered and Tropical – meaning the tropical zodiac is
used that is measured from the Equinox and Solstice Points.  The word “tropic” comes
from the Greek word (τροπή) “tropi” and means “turn”- referring to the apparent turning
of the Sun at 0 degrees of Cancer in the North and 0 degrees of Capricorn in the South.
Overview on Modern Western Astrology and Humanistic Astrology
The majority of practicing western astrologers are psychologically oriented and use
astrology as a counseling tool for the personal growth.  However, personal growth
astrology, also utilizes trend analysis and predictive techniques.  In fact it is
erroneous to assume that a psychologically oriented astrologer would not employ
the various predictive techniques, such as progressions, solar arc, transits, and
solar and lunar return charts, etc. since most of them do!
Astrologers who practice in the West use a combination of
techniques and methods that stem from many different
schools.  The majority of full-time western astrologers
practice an astrology that reinvented itself in the 20th
Century, in a belated response to the scientific revolution
that had transformed modern society.
Most practicing professional astrologers would say that this
reinvented astrology falls under the general heading of
HUMANISTIC ASTROLOGY, a term Dane Rudhyarfirst
utilized in 1969, borrowing from Humanistic Psychology.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 2 / 13
Branches of HUMANISTIC ASTROLOGY:
 Jungian Astrology
 Psychological Astrology
 Transpersonal Astrology
 Evolutionary Astrology
 Archetypal Astrology
More details…
Most western astrologers believe in “free will” and are cautious when doing a
forecast, suggesting a variety of options to their client when discussing their
client’s objectives.  Likewise, most western astrologers use astrology to help their
client become more aware of their potential and discuss trends within the context
of their clients evolving self-awareness.  Trends are weighed
within the context of a client’s belief system, and most
astrologers use a chart to expose any destructive or
counterproductive beliefs a client may have.  At the psychology
extreme of western astrology is the astrologyof astrologer Liz
Greene, based upon Jungian Psychology and Depth Psychology.
Liz Greene and her Jungian psychological approach strongly
influenced the development of astrology, especially during the
late 1970’s through the early 1990’s.
Previously, Carl Jung had studied and experimented with astrology in the 1930’s,
but there were many astrologers in the first half of the 20th Century in England and
the United States that contributed greatly to the field, such as
Evangeline Adams, Alan Leo, Charles Carter, Ronald Davison,
Charles Harvey, Dane Rudhyar, and Marc Edmond Jones just to
name a few.  The late 1960’s to mid-1970’s marked another
astrological Renaissance in the west, with the Humanistic
Astrology of Dane Rudhyar emerging as the most influential.
Rudhyar had earlier been influenced by Carl Jung and later by
Abraham Maslow (pictured here on the right) whose Humanistic
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 3 / 13
Psychology emphasized the development of an individual’s potential.
It was out of this generation that prominent astrologerslike Sue
Tompkins, Robert Hand, Noel Tyl, Jeff Jawer, Steven Forrest, Liz
Greene, Donna Cunningham, Zipporah Dobbyns, Richard Tarnas,
Glenn Perry, Bil Tierney, Hadley Fitzgerald and Alan Oken emerged.
Evolutionary Astrology – Steven Forrest
Out of this mix of psychologically oriented
astrologers two astrologers, Steven Forrest and
Jeff Greene emerged to develop a style of
astrology that understands each person's
birthchart as a map of the soul's evolution. The
term Evolutionary Astrology is used by many
astrologers and has a complicated history. You
can learn more about the term's rich meaning and context in Steven's seminal
work about the underpinnings of his technique, Yesterday's Sky. Steven's use of the
term is one that celebrates the diversity of the field. But back in 2000, Steven got
together with Jeffrey Wolf Green to attempt to articulate a set of core perceptions
that would mark any astrologer's work as "Evolutionary." Steven's approach
assumes that each of us is able to work with the astrological forces, not simply be
directed by them. Coming from the core belief that there is a larger, transpersonal
meaning to our lives, astrology can be used to help us live in harmony with that
higher purpose. Thus, an Evolutionary Astrology consultation is never "predictive"
in a rigid or fatalistic sense.
Archetypal Astrology – Richard Tarnas
An archetype is a universal principle or force that
affects--impels, structures, permeates--the human
psyche and human behavior on many levels.
Archetypes (for example, Venus or Mars) have a
transcendent, mythic quality, yet they also have
very specific psychological expressions--as in the
desire for love and the experience of beauty
(Venus), or the impulse toward forceful activity and
aggression (Mars). Moreover, archetypes seem to
work from both within and without, for they can
express themselves as impulses and images from
the interior psyche, yet also as events and
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 4 / 13
situations in the external world.  The archetypes in a birth chart can be seen as
defining the basic structure of our potential unfolding on many levels.
Classical Astrology
In the 1990’s Robert Hand, along with Robert Schmidt, Ellen Black and Robert
Zoller began an extensive research project called “Project
Hindsight” in an effort to translate and re-translate many
of the Greek, Latin, and Hebrew texts that pertained to
astrology.  Though some of these texts had already been
translated by academics, these astrologers, who would
learn Greek and Latin, etc. – were not pleased with many
of the translations available.  The academics that did the
translating had little or no knowledge of astrology and
Robert Hand and his group was determined to remedy this
situation.  Project Hindsight lead to a revival in interest in
the Classical Astrology of the Greek and Roman world.
Since then, Project Hindsight has primarily focused on Hellenistic Astrology, and
continues to be the leader in historical research in this area.
Astrologer Chris Brennanis one of the leading Hellenistic astrologers.  This renewed
interest in Classical Astrology led a number of young astrologers to become
“Classical Astrologers” and “Hellenistic Astrologers,” utilizing these more ancient
techniques.  However, it is important to remember that much of the Classical
World had a different “mindset” or world view and belief system.  A belief in “fate”
was common in all classes of society.  Therefore, it is important for Classical
Astrologers, Hellenistic Astrologers, and Medieval Astrologers to reconcile their
methodology and practices to the modern world that we live in terms of our
modern world-view versus the classical world-view.  This philosophical divide is the
main issue from a modern astrological practice perspective.
Here are some links to sites about Classical and Hellenistic Astrology, including my
Blog on Sina.com:
http://www.projecthindsight.com/archives/history.html
http://www.hellenisticastrology.com/
http://blog.sina.com.cn/railey
BLOG March 18, 2013 Modern Astrology Theory and Practice Part One:  “Classical
Roots”
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 5 / 13
Horary Astrology
The name horary comes from the Greek word for “hour.”  This is a chart set up at
the time and place that any question is asked, in order to “divine” an answer.
Horary astrology is really “divination,” and uses the “symbolism” of astrology
creatively to supposedly find answers to immediate questions.  It is well known
that creative use of astrological symbolism seems to enable some individual to gain
insights “intuitively,” and such insights can sometimes
be useful.  However, the problem with Horary
Astrology is that, even when you follow the labyrinth of
“rules,” interpretations can vary widely and are entirely
dependent upon the imagination and creative intuition
of the practitioner.Horary Astrology has in various
forms also been practiced since ancient times, though
techniques and “rules” have varied significantly.
Horary astrology was in particular used by astrologers
during the European Renaissance and thereafter in
England during the 1500 and 1600’s.  William Lilly was
the most famous English practitioner of Horary
Astrology, due to his prediction of the infamous “Fire
of London.” Horary astrology, like that of William Lilly,
is based upon a belief that all things are “fated” or “preordained” by God.  The
horary astrologer is simply trying to “read the mind of God,” at least from the
European Christian perspective of William Lilly.  Lilly’s books have been reprinted
and are promoted by an English astrologer named John Frawley, (who now resides
in Poland), who teaches a web program, and authored several volumes entitled
“The Real Astrology.”  Frawley labels all other astrology as “not really astrology” –
except for his brand of Horary Astrology that he promotes with zeal.
However, there is a reason that horary astrology went underground and nearly
died out prior to the 20th Century, as it was not compatible with the shift in world
view that accompanied the scientific revolution.  Modern western astrology
“reinvented” itself from the ashes of astrology, and is still sifting through these
ashes to determine which methods and techniques are the most useful and
applicable in actual practice.  However the fundamental problem with Horary
Astrology is the claim of many of its practitioners to be able to “answer all
questions!” This is the “fortune telling” model of astrology, and such claims harm
the serious efforts of dedicated responsible astrologers.  Most western astrologers
will use some horary astrology from time to time, though only to support creative
analysis or to gain insights into specific questions when possible.  Perhaps the best
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 6 / 13
way to think of Horary Astrology is as a “creative tool;” much like the “paint brush”
program on most computers. Here is an example of a Horary I did back in 1976.
Of course much depends upon the Horary Rules you follow. (See article: “What is the value of
Horary Astrology 2nd edition 2015”)Most traditional Horary Astrology, such as an old book on
Horary by Geraldine Davis, states that the ASC represents the question or the person asking the
question and the DSC is the person being asked, i.e. the astrologer.  Of course, Horary Astrology
“traditionally” did not use Uranus, Neptune or Pluto.  So, the “Classical Rulerships” would apply.
Saturn would “rule” Aquarius, and Jupiter would rule Pisces, while Mars ruled Scorpio.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 7 / 13
Vedic Astrology – practiced in India, uses a sidereal zodiac that is
constellation based and follows the precession of the equinoxes.Hindu astrology
(also known as Indian astrology, more recently Vedic astrologyKannada:
), also Jyotish or Jyotisha, from Sanskritjyotiṣa, from jyótis-
"light, heavenly body") is the traditional Hindu system of astronomy and astrology.
It has three branches:[1]
 Siddhanta: Indian astronomy.
 Samhita: Mundane astrology, predicting important events related to
countries such as war, earthquakes, political events, financial positions,
electional astrology, house and construction related matters (Vāstu Shāstra),
animals, portents, omens, and so on.
 Hora: Predictive astrology in detail.
The foundation of Hindu astrology is the notion of bandhu of the Vedas,
(scriptures), which is the connection between the microcosm and the macrocosm.
Practice relies primarily on the sidereal zodiac, which is different from the tropical
zodiac used in Western astrology in that an Ayanamsaadjustment is made for the
gradual precession of the vernal equinox.
Ayanamsa is now defined as the angle by which the sidereal ecliptic longitude of a
celestial body is less than its tropical ecliptic longitude. Ayanamsa is mostly
assumed to be close to being 24° today, or 23.85° as of 2000. This value would
correspond to a coincidence of the sidereal with the tropical zodiac in or near the
year 293 AD, roughly compatible with the assumption that the tradition of the
tropical zodiac as current in Western astrology was fixed by Ptolemy in the 3rd
century.
Hindu astrology includes several nuanced sub-systems of interpretation and
prediction with elements not found in Western astrology, such as its system of
lunar mansions (nakshatras).Astrology remains an important facet in the lives of
many Hindus. In Hindu culture, newborns are traditionally named based on their
jyotish charts, and astrological concepts are pervasive in the organization of the
calendar and holidays as well as in many areas of life, such as in making decisions
made about marriage, opening a new business, and moving into a new home.
Astrology retains a position among the sciences in modern India.Following a
judgement of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2001, some Indian universities
offer advanced degrees in astrology.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 8 / 13
The term Hindu astrology had been in use as the English equivalent of Jyotisha
since the early 19th century. Vedic astrology is a relatively recent term, entering
common usage in the 1980s with self-help publications on Ayurveda or Yoga. The
qualifier "Vedic" is however a something of a misnomer, as there is no mention of
Jyotisha in the Vedas, and historical documentation suggests horoscopic astrology
in the Indian subcontinent was a Hellenic influence post-dating the Vedic period.
Here is a sample of a Vedic Chart or Hindu Chart.  Notice that the planets Uranus,
Neptune, and Pluto are not listed.  Likewise notice how much the sidereal
difference or Ayanamsa has changed the natal positions by sign.  The Sun, Mercury
and Venus are now in Virgo – along with Saturn and the South Node, while the
Moon and Mars are now in Scorpio.  Nonetheless, the aspects remain the same, as
do some, but “not” all of the house positions.  The Lunar Nodes are also included
and are considered very important (like planets) in Vedic Astrology.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 9 / 13
Uranian Astrology – developed out of the Hamburg School of Germany in
the 1920’s – 1930’s as was part of the German attempt to reinvent western
astrology in a totally new modern and experimental context.  Uranian astrology
was and is considered the most radical reinvention of astrology to emerge from the
Hamburg School.   Alfred Witte (1878 – 1941) founder of the Hamburg School of
Astrology, is the inventor or originator of Uranian Astrology.  This system is based
upon the use of mathematical midpoints, that Witte claimed led to his “discovery”
of new planets that orbitted beyond Neptune, or later Pluto.  These planets were
called “trans-neptunian” planets, though later some called them “transplutonian”
planets.  Witte postulated these to be possible planets orbiting the Sun, with a
“hypothetical ephemeris” that he calculated.  However, “none” of these trans-
neptunian planets have ever been found, nor have any objects been discovered
along the orbits proposed by Witte and his associate Sieggrün.
Trans-Neptunian planets posited by Witte and Sieggrün
Name
OP
AU
Source
Earlier data
Cupido
262.5 41.0
Witte/Neely
262.5 estimated by Witte in 1923
Hades
360.6 50.7
Witte/Neely
360.66 estimated by Witte in 1924
Zeus
455.6 59.2
Witte/Neely
455.6 estimated by Witte
Kronos
521.8 64.8
Witte/Neely
521.8 estimated by Witte in 1924
Apollon
589.4 70.4
Neely
earlier estimated at 576 by Sieggrün
Admetos
631.7 73.7
Neely
earlier estimated at 617 by Sieggrün
Vulcanus
679.0 77.4
Neely
earlier estimated at 663 by Sieggrün
Poseidon
765.3 83.5
Neely
earlier estimated at 745 by Sieggrün in 1934
Though today Uranian Astrologers, (a rather vocal minority), claim that these trans-
neptunian planets are “mathematical points” rather than planets, since Witte did
formulate their existence based upon formulas similar to those of “Arabic parts and
planetary rulership systems.  Modern Uranian astrologers make extensive use of
midpoints, as did many in the Hamburg School.Uranian Astrology also incorporates
the use of 16th-harmonic aspects, singled out for their supposed correlation with
dynamic energy manifestations. These include the conjunction (0°), opposition
(180°), square (90°), semi-square (45°), and sesqui-quadrate (135°), as well as all
other multiples of 22.5° angles such as 67.5, 112.5, and 157.5.
Here are the additional points or planets used in Uranian Astrology.
Cupido
Hades
Zeus
Kronos
Apollon
Admetos
Vulkanus
Poseidon
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 10 / 13
One can see at a “glance” how complicated the addition of 8 planets or “points”
makes to a natal chart.  In addition this increases the number of “midpoints” and
aspects and all other such considerations, etc.  The Uranian astrology that gained
new converts in the United States in the 1970’s incorporated many psychological
concepts into this complex and radical reinvention of astrology.  Uranian astrology
seems to appeal to those who prefer complicated puzzles, and is another example
of the search for a “magic bullet” in astrology that will “explain everything.”  My
teacher used to say as analogous to astrology, that it’s “important to learn how to
drive before you try and reinvent the wheel.”  Of course, the Hamburg School of
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 11 / 13
Astrology in Germany literally “reinvented the wheel” with Cosmobiology. (Uranian
Astrology - renamed Symetrical Astrology by Gary Christian)http://garychristen.com/symm/home.html
Cosmobiologyalso stemmed in part from the Hamburg School of Astrology, but
rejected the use of Trans-Neptunian hypothetical planets or “points.”  Instead,
Cosmobiology, spearheaded by Reinhold Ebertin,
whose mother was a well-known  German professional
astrologer, decided to completely do away with the
houses all together and create a 90 degree zodiac dial
or 90 degree chart wheel, which would include the ASC
and MC and would incorporate extensive use of
midpoints. Ebertin’s book:The Combination of Stellar
Influences - remains the primary source book for
Cosmobiologists.  Many astrologers, me included,
consider this book to be a good source of key words –
as well as a good reference book for midpoints and
midpoint combinations.  However, Ebertin appears to
have a significantly negative bias towards almost any
combination involving the planet Neptune, sometimes referring to Neptunian
midpoint combinations as indicative of “imbeciles.”
Here is a sample of a 90
degree dial used by in
Cosmobiology.  With a 90
degree dial an opposition
becomes a conjunction,
and so does a square! In
this chart the ASC and
Saturn are square at birth,
but now appear conjunct
along with the North Node,
which both Saturn and the
ASC square.  However, this
is useful when it comes to
recognizing midpoints –
which are “very” important
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 12 / 13
in Cosmobiology.  This is also a minority school in Western Astrology, but
influential.
Harmonics or Harmonic Astrology – This is a branch of Western Astrology
that was developed and promoted by English astrologer John Addey (1920 – 1982).
John Addey, like the famous Johannes Kepler three Centuries before, recognized
that aspects were divisions of 360 degrees; however, Addey took this concept
much further and developed a more scientific approach to analyzing these divisions
of 360 degrees into mathematical sequences he called “harmonics.”  Thus a
division of 360 by 5 was called the “5th Harmonic” and so on.  Addey theorized that
these harmonic families or groups should be considered for their unique properties,
and that a statistical analysis based upon harmonics might yield better results.  He
was keenly aware that astrology was an outcast from the scientific mainstream of
modern thought and he believed that Western Astrology should rely more upon
empirical and rational tools of analysis.  His book Harmonics In Astrology is
excellent reading on the core of his ideas and methodology.  Unfortunately, his
influenced has waned over the last 15 years as Western Astrology became more
enamored of Classical and Hellenistic Astrology.  Yet his work remains an
impressive example to put Western Astrology on a more modern and scientific
footing.
“We are all engaged upon the building of a science – a science which of course
has practical application as an art. But what are the “stones” with which this
Science is to be built? This is an important question, for before any science can be
truly unfolded, so as to realize its full potentialities, it must first be reduced to its
fundamental concepts.”
Addey was particularly impressed by the statistical work of Michel Gauquelin,
whose massive collection of birth data in Europe and over 30 years of statistical
analysis continues to be the most extensive statistical work in support of basic
astrological assumptions regarding planets in existence. Addey wrote numerous
articles – mainly for the Astrological Journal, many of which are now available in
his Harmonic Anthology (1976, new edition, AFA, 2011) and Selected Writings (AFA,
1976); his main work was Harmonics in Astrology (1975, latest edition, Eyebright
Books, 2010). He was some way through a further book, A New Study of Astrology
when he was taken ill in the winter of 1982 – this was completed by Charles Harvey
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 13 / 13
and Tim Addey some years later (Urania Trust, 1996). The latter work included as
appendices two small monographs – Astrology Reborn (originally published in 1972)
and The Discrimination of Birthtypes (1974).