2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 20  1 / 6
Level Five Lesson 20
Advanced Forecasting Chart Demonstration
© www.nodoor.com
Name:Watermelon
Birth
Data:11:10
AM,
Jan.6th, 1991, Beijing
ASC: 28♓30, MC: 29♐12.
I contacted Beareagle the minute I saw the information of the new example case application.
He said, "you are finally on board." I thought to myself, "this may not be the last time you
saythose words to me."
An earlier text that Beareagle sent to me is the reason why I have decided to apply so quickly.
The text reads, "I want to persuade you to give suggestions to Nodoor's annual design of
courses and workshops (snicker)."He might not be serious, but those words have turned my
inner world upside down. I have had so many thoughts about Nodoor. For example, I've
always wanted to suggest Nodoor to make ISAR China Conference held in combination with
workshops. That day, July's Capricorn Full Moon was conjunct my lunar nodes at 27 degrees,
and our conversation ended in chat. After that, I was lost in thoughts and began to fantasize
about myself sending texts and emails to Nodoor and suggesting them to hold ISAR China
conference. I even made a complete plan and wanted to send it to Felicia. But in contrast with
the glorious fantasy was the cold reality that I was still sitting in my office, lifelessly. I sighed.
My father helped me get this job, doing simple accounting work in an in-system unit. I could
totally imagine what I would be like 30 to 40 years later. When I decided to take this job, my
father said that I would not make a difference in this lifetime. I had zero interest in what
happened in my workplace. I often put it behind when I was assigned by my leader to have a
meeting, and would tell him directly that I forgot. I didn't feel like doing the work handed
over to me and always put aside the things I hated to do. After all, someone caring about the
work was always willing to finish it for me. This working status lasted three years.
Over one year ago, I met Nodoor. Astrology has aroused my curiosity and thirst for
knowledge, and I've put a lot of enthusiasm in it. I am very close with Beareagle. We can
always come up with good ideas in chatting and put them into practice, such as the popular
sharing activities, reviews before practice tests, etc. I couldn't have pulled them off without
Beareagle. We are in tune lazy partners who often discuss ideas that are both in and out of line.
That's why I have been touched so deeply by his earlier text——I have the very similar
thought. Deep in my heart, I want to quit and apply for a job in Nodoor, but... Yeah, there is
always a "but".
My friends all persuade me to quit my current accounting job and do something serious.
However, this job seems to be my last source of security. I have stopped taking money from
my parents and become self-reliant ever since I graduated from college. Even though I was
always alone at home with my parents being outside having fun or swamped with their own
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 20  2 / 6
businesses, I ritually moved away to live alone in my grandpa's old empty house in 2014. My
parents paid so little attention to me that they didn't even know I attended the workshops.
They are not the kind of parents who stay at home taking care of their kids.
My thought to leave this job and pursue my dream came in an instant. It shouldn't be hard for
me because I am a go-with-guts kind of person who does whatever goes through his or her
mind. Besides, I feel like I am already drifting away; I am working on one job but longing for
another. Emotionally, however, part of me is still unwilling to leave and struggling with the
pain and entanglement of making a move.
What I want to discuss with David, in general, is that I feel like I am not ready to leave my
present job, but I don't know what can be defined as ready. I always want to learn more before
making a decision, but knowledge is infinite. So, under what circumstances should I make
this decision? And while interpreting my birth chart "pattern", can David also make a
prediction about the critical times of my career development? Thank you!
NATAL CHART
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 20  3 / 6
Transits and Secondary Progressions for August 16 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 20  4 / 6
Solar Arc for August 16 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 20  5 / 6
Solar RETURN Chart for 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 20  6 / 6
Solar RETURN Chart for 2017