2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 1 / 7
2016 Nodoor Core Level Five
Lesson 26 Consultation Demonstration
©www.nodoor.com
Major Events:
1. Failures of important exams.
Time of the national college entrance exam: 9:00 a.m., Jul. 7th, 2002, in Kaifu District,
Changsha, Hunan Province
Time of the entrance exam for postgraduate schools: 8:30 a.m., Jan. 14th, 2006, In Kaifu
District, Changsha, Hunan Province
Actually, from my primary school years, I have always been an outstanding student. My
grades were better than average students. After the entrance exam for junior middle schools,
I was successful admitted to the best local middle school, and became the pride of my
parents. I had very strong self-esteem. I would study pretty hard even without my parents’
supervision. However, I failed in the following important exams: the entrance exam for high
schools, the national college entrance exam and the entrance exam for postgraduate
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 2 / 7
schools.
After I failed in the entrance exam for high schools, my parents’ expectations became great
psychological pressure for me. They paid the additional fee for choosing schools so that I
could enter a key high school to study. Therefore, I felt indebted to my family. I studied even
harder, but I was still weary of studying deep in my heart. My study efficiency was very low. I
forced myself to sit at the desk. Even though I could not learn or remember anything, I
wouldn’t allow myself to play.
Before the national college entrance exam, I studied much harder. I slept for a short time, and
studied for a very long time, but in vain. My classmates laughed at me behind me for my
foolishness. No matter how hard I studied, I couldn’t get admitted to any college. Again, I paid
the additional fee for choosing schools to enter a college.
Regarding the entrance exam for postgraduate schools, I failed once more, even though I
was always the first of my class in normal exams. I felt I’d got the Examination Phobia or Test
Anxiety. When I sat at the desk and opened books, I would soon fall asleep.
After graduating from college, I took part in many exams for admissions to the civil service. I
was lucky to be admitted to one post, as I couldn’t even set my mind at rest to get prepared
for the exams.
Till now, maybe because I have fear of exams, and I’m too afraid of failing, I cannot focus on
even my favorite subjects. Take the astrological exams for example, I cannot concentrate
myself on continuous study. This causes great obstacles to my career development. I would
like to change this situation. I hope David can give me some advice.
2. Explore how I get along with my husband.
My husband was born at 3:30 a.m. on Oct. 16th, 1986, in Kaifu District, Changsha, Hunan
Province.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 3 / 7
I found that the Sun in the Solar Return Chart of Oct. 11th, 2016 is in the 7th house. Marriage
will be the focus of this year. Recently, I get more and more disappointed at my husband (the
last time was at 2:40 p.m., on Sept. 17th, 2016 in Changsha, Hunan Province). He thinks that
I’m strong enough to deal with many things by myself. He doesn’t need to take care of me.
However, my feeling is that I’m neglected. I cannot feel his love or care, which causes a low
sense of value deep in my heart. I begin to get disappointed at my marriage. I cannot stop
thinking that for what I keep staying in this kind of neglect and for what purpose I am being
tested. I tell myself what I should do is to find my core value and not to establish the sense of
value on others. However, I have to find a new pattern of getting along with my husband
because of the feeling of repeated neglect. I hope that David can help me point out the
direction as to how to get along with my husband.
Composite Chart with husband
I felt grateful that I was chosen to be the relationship demonstration in the last lesson of Level
Four. I learnt a lot from it, discovering my family pattern and the behavior pattern of my
husband. My husband works for a state-owned enterprise, and the job was arranged by his
family. He has no goals and doesn’t want to do anything. He just uses his cellphone to read
novels. With Mars square Pluto, he was described as “a warrior buried by avalanche” by
David, which gave me more understanding of his situation. The execution power of my
husband’s father was strangled, and my husband inherited it, having no execution power.
How should I face this buried warrior? Should I tolerate him all the time? I don’t care much
about the “no improvement” in his career. However, I cannot stand his neglect.
In my point of view, the only thing that he has motive power to do is taking care of our child.
He thinks our child is too little to take care of himself/herself, so that he should give the child
unlimited love and care. Therefore, he is very carefully and thoughtful toour child, which
changes him into another person. And most of our quarrels are about our child. He doesn’t
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 4 / 7
bother to argue with me for other things.
Our child was born at 0:39 a.m. on May 7th, 2014 in Kaifu District, Changsha, Hunan
Province.
I know it is hard to change him. I advise him to learn martial arts, but he has no interests and
doesn’t take any action. I wonder what I can do to myself, and what kind of attitude I should
take to face our marriage.
3. About my career choices.
At 8:00 a.m. on Jul. 10th, 2006, I started to work for the government.
From my graduation till now, I have been a civil servant for 10 years. However, I haven’t found
my sense of value. I always have a feeling that I don’t belong there, but I keep going further in
this path. Though I got the position of civil servant through exams, and got promoted to a
leadership position through exams, I still have no sense of value. Work is just responsibility
and routine for me, without any vitality.
In 2010, I got to know astrology. At first, I was interested in astrology, and took it as a way to
understand myself. After I took courses in Nodoor in 2015, I found that astrology can become
a career to help others, so I kept studying astrology. I remember that David asked me to pay
attention to my dreams. Then I remembered a dream very clearly. In my dream, a great fire
broke out in the distance. I escaped with a companion. We walked to the elevator, and we
went upward. We pushed the button of the fifth floor. Then we found another exit on the fifth
floor. A few people escaped through that exit. I kept thinking about this dream when I woke up.
I was shocked as my office was on the fifth floor. Did that indicate that I could escape from
here? I felt excited.
However, when I am studying astrology, I cannot concentrate myself, and I always feel that
I’m not experienced enough to interpret charts for others. In my mind, interpreting charts
without enough knowledge is irresponsible for others. When I am free, I would review the
lessons taught by teachers, but the review is inconsistent and I haven’t finished my review,
which causes a great difficulty for me to begin myastrology business.
I want to ask David a few questions:
Am I suitable to practice astrology as a full-time job? If I want to be a full-time astrologer, what
plans should I make and what specific measures should I take? How to accumulate my
clients? Based on my personal qualities, in what kind of state shall I study astrology and
become an outstanding professional astrologer just like you?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 5 / 7
September 27 2016 Transits and Secondary Progressions
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 6 / 7
September 27 2016 Solar Arc
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 26 7 / 7
October 2016 Solar Return