2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 1 / 10
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five  Lesson 24
“Counseling Techniques and Issues”
© www.nodoor.com
Guidelines of Astrological Counseling
1.Explain to your client what to expect in a session.
 Tell them your fee, length of session, and that you’ll record
their session for them if they like.
 Let them know you are not a “fortune teller.”
 Explain that you use astrology to help people discover the
truth about themselves and their life.
 Tell them you will work “with” them to find solutions.
 Explain the difference between forecasting trends and
predicting events.
2. Listen to your client!
3. Ask your client questions.
4. Allow the meaning of their chart to reveal itself toyou through
your dialogue with your client.
5. When you don’t know something, tell them you don’t.
6. As their truth is revealed, work with you client todevelop
strategies to meet their real needs.
7. You can’t solve all their problems in one session; suggest a date
for another session.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 2 / 10
CLIENT INTAKE FORM
(All personal information will remain confidential)
Name:
Phone:
Email:
QQ:
WeChat: (optional)
City you current live in:
Referred by:
Birth Data:
Month
Day
Year
Hour and Minute of Birth:
How accurate is your birth hour and minute?
Place of birth:  City
Province/Municipality
Country
Have you ever had an astrological session before?
What is your knowledge of astrology?
Have you ever sought counseling or therapy before?
Please circle:  single
married
divorced
Do you have any children?
If yes, how many and ages?
What are your main concerns and reasons for wanting a consultation?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 3 / 10
DETAILS ON ASTROLOGICAL COUNSELING:
The most important rule in using astrology as a counseling tool is to
“listen” to your client, and to “ask them questions.”  Don’t make the
mistake of assuming that you have “all the answers” from looking at
their chart; because…
YOU DON’THAVE ALL THE ANSWERS!
Instead, the chart/s allow you to know what questions to ask your
client, and also “how to listen for key words or key phrases” in their
dialogue with you.  This dialogue with your client is extremely
important.
THE MODERN ASTROLOGER IS “NOT” THE “KNOW-ALL SEE-ALL” FORTUNE TELLER
OF ANCIENT OR EVEN CLASSICAL TIMES.
Instead you are serving as a responsible guide to help your client
discover what is true about themselves and their life.  Your role is to
increase their awareness about who they are in the story of their life so
that they can make decisions that will allow them to experience a more
“fulfilling life.”
When I was an advanced student of astrology in the 1970’s I was
strongly influenced by the counseling ideas and insights of astrologer
Noel Tyl.  Here is an excerpt from one of my blogs about this.
As an advanced student of astrology in 1974-75,
I would devour his 12 volumes on The Principles
and Practice of Astrology.  What I liked about
these volumes were his “case histories” from
“real interactions with clients.”
Rather than simply focus on the charts of well-
known persons in his explanations of astrological
and psychological principles, Noel illustrated
examples from his day-to-day astrology practice.
I remember especially his Volume 10:
Astrological Counsel from The Principles and
Practice of Astrology, as I was eager to learn
more about counseling as an astrologer.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 4 / 10
In Volume 10 Noel would clearly state the problems
with older styles of astrological consultations,
pointing out the problems with presenting a chart to
a client in a “one-sided performance.”   Noel pointed
out that in an astrologer-client relationship “the
tendency to perform is even more crucially present,
since Astrology and the astrologer appear under test
and evaluation.”  Tyl called this one-sided
performance Astrology’s “original sin.”  He also
emphasized that this old model of astrological
presentation lent itself to a more fatalistic drama.
“When the astrological performer becomes overly
analytical with technical jargon, he or she becomes increasingly fatalistic. Full
service through astrology becomes increasingly remote: one-sidedness practically
eliminates the client’s contribution, and fatalism denies the integrity of the
client’s will, the uniqueness of his identity.”  [Bold emphasis is mine.]
Such notions may sound a bit simplistic or even dated now, since the crossover
between counseling, therapy, psychology and astrology have become
commonplace in the west, but this was still not the case in 1974 when Noel
published this 12 Volume series.  Despite the fact that the famous psychologist Carl
Jung, whose work also influenced Noel, had stated as early as 1935 that “Astrology
deserves recognition from psychology because it is the oldest psychology,”
astrology was still mired in remnants of a more deterministic mind-set.  Astrology
had certainly made strides in reinventing itself “belatedly” in light of the scientific
revolution during the earlier part of the 20th Century, but this process was still
underway when Noel began studying astrology in the 1960’s.
The point that Noel was making in Chapter One of his Astrological Counsel is the
importance of talking “with” your client, rather than talking “to” your client.  It’s
true, the astrologer does “listen” to what their client says through the framework
of what the astrologer understands about the chart.  So when certain “key words”
are stated by the client, the astrologer pays close attention to what’s being said
and especially to “how” it’s being said.  Yet this talking together also facilitates
“working together” with your client.  Problem solving becomes a shared process
that involves both interaction and feedback – a dynamic that works both ways.  Tyl
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 5 / 10
says, “Immediately the client is keyed to
participation, to sharing, to a responsibility to
cooperate in a discussion that is dedicated to full
private dialogue.”  Such dialogue also allows for
questions, really “leading questions” from the
astrologer, but questions that involve both the
client and the astrologer in a search for truth and
self-discovery.  It was Noel Tyl that turned me
and many other astrologers in the west into
more critical thinking counselors that listened to
their clients, an invited their clients to engage in
a mutual problem solving process that was also
informed by the indications present in the
astrological chart.  Much like two travelers
staring at a map, one more familiar with the map but the other more familiar with
the territory, astrologer and client could together chart a way to create a more
fulfilling journey!
Your efforts will pay off for you and for your client!
Your client will benefit from your honesty and will
begin to feel more empowered in their search for
answers.  They will value you as a “sounding board,”
and trust your integrity as a counselor.  In addition,
over time they will be able to look back at your trend
forecasts and recognize how well you characterized
these phases of their life, increasing their awareness in
ways that enabled them to make better decisions with
more fulfilling outcomes!
David Railey at age 34
Noel Tyl and DR in 2005
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 6 / 10
The Importance of making professional referrals.
In addition, it is also important to let your client know when you “do
NOT know something” or do not have an answer.  This is especially
true when you recognize that your client’s problems or issues exceed
your capacity or expertise.
Therefore, it is very important to have a reference list of other
professionals that you can refer your clients to, be it addiction
counselors, marriage and family counselors, therapists whose area of
focus fits your clients apparent needs, and also doctors and health care
professionals.
Obviously you want these referrals to be responsible professionals
with whom you have some familiarity or whom have an excellent
reputation in their field or area of study and practice.  Having a referral
list also benefits you as a professional astrologer because they may
refer clients to you as well.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 7 / 10
Consider the list of questions you would prepare in advance of
a session with the following client.  Think carefully about what
you are looking for and “why.”
MALE – Natal Chart
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 8 / 10
Transits and Progressions for September 13 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 9 / 10
Solar Arc for September 13 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 24 10 / 10
Solar Return 2016