2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 1 / 17
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 21
A Brief Introduction to the History of Astrology and Reference Material
©  www.nodoor.com
Megalithic Roots
The appearance of  stone rings and similar monuments worldwide was in part a response to the
need to organize early agrarian societies.  Though many Megalithic structures were erected to
honor the dead, some were constructed as
calendars.
ISLAND OF MALTA(above)
(right)KOREA
These stone calendars allowed early human societies to measure time and to “predict” the cycles of life.  The earliest
calendars were aligned with the seasons, i.e. the equinox and solstice points.  Later structures measured Lunar Phases,
bright star alignments, and predicted Eclipses.
The most famous surviving Megalithic Calendar in Europe is Stonehenge, though there are other variations in stone
circles across Europe, Africa and Asia.  In China there are remnants in Liaoning, Shandong, and Zhejiang.
Stonehenge pictured above and at winter solstice in the 1980’s, and below an aerial view
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 2 / 17
This circular pattern was repeated by other societies across Europe and elsewhere, such as in
Egypt before the pyramids. The stone circle of Nabta in southernmost Egypt stands now in a desert
that was once a fertile area of abundant rainfall in earlier climates.
Stone Circle of Nabta, Egypt above and Avebury, England below
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 3 / 17
The original core 28 stones at Avebury marked the Moon’s
motion, and could accurately predict lunation’s months in
advance.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 4 / 17
These early calendars not only helped to organize society but led to increasingly sophisticated observations
and measurements of celestial phenomena.  Mathematics developed parallel with forecasting.  If the
seasons, lunar phases, eclipses, and the rising and setting of planets and stars could be measured and
predicted, why not the weather, floods, the success or failure of crops, or even the successes or failures of
the rulers and kings?  Nowhere were such questions pursued so earnestly and consistently in the west than
among the civilizations of the Fertile Crescent.
The Aubrey stone calendar was used to predict eclipses. Two Node
markers define eclipse zones (shaded).  The Full Moon shown
above would not be an eclipse as it lies outside of the eclipse zone.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 5 / 17
From ancient Sumer, to Ur and Babylon, the civilizations of the Fertile Crescent (modern day Iraq) devoted
significant resources to the building of observatories called “ziggurats.” These Chaldean
astronomer/astrologers often had more than just their reputations on the line when it came to the success
and failure of their predictions.  The level of astronomical and astrological development in this ancient
Mesopotamian Culture between 3500 BCE and 559 BCE cannot be underestimated.  Not only would they
influence all of the cultures bordering them, such as the Assyrians and later the Persians, but their carefully
kept astrological records and astronomical tables would influence the emerging civilizations of the Greek
City States, as exemplified by  the astronomer Thales (born 640 BCE) and the incredibly influential
philosopher Pythagoras (born circa 570 BCE).
Thales and Pythagoras were likewise influenced by Egypt, both spent time studying in Egypt and Babylon.
The Egyptians had developed an advanced geometry, and they also had very accurate calendars, both solar
and lunar – which the used to organize the celebration of yearly festivals.  The Egyptian concept of
geometry not only contributed to the careful survey of property following the yearly flood of the Nile but
led to a similar geometry of the sky.  In addition, the spiritual preoccupation of the Egyptians with the
“afterlife” and their belief in the “soul” led to correlations between the cycles of the Sun, Moon, and
planets with the cycles of life and of the soul.  Pythagoras and his many students would not only influence
math and geometry but likewise spiritual notions that would impact both the philosophy of the Greek
world and notions about astrology.
Ziggurats of ancient Babylon, served as observatories,
exacting calendars and the means to nearly endless
correlations and predictive speculations.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 6 / 17
The pyramids commemorated the pharaohs and were astronomically/astrologically aligned with
both the Sun, Moon and key stars such as Sirius.
GREECE
BABYLON
EGYPT
Hellenistic astrology also influenced Vedic Astrology
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 7 / 17
By the time of the Hellenistic World the exchanges of astrological/astronomical knowledge and
information between Babylon, Egypt and Ancient Greece had been going on for many centuries.
During the century following the death of Alexander the Great this exchange of astrological ideas
would coalesce into the basic tenants of Western Astrology.  Though they were unaware of any
planets beyond Saturn, the Greeks had developed very specific associations with the Sun, Moon,
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, as well as the Signs of the Zodiac that made up the
Hellenistic Calendar.  The Greeks applied both their logic and philosophy to the development of
astrological ideas, yet in both areas were indebted to the Egyptian and Mesopotamian Civilizations.
By the 1st Century BC the Hellenistic development of astrology had reached a remarkable degree
of sophistication, and cultural exchanges with Babylon intensified.  The Babylonian astrologer
“Berossus” set up a school of Astrology on the island of Kos to teach astrology to the Greeks, while
at the same time the famous Library of Alexandria flourished, becoming a learning center that
survived for many centuries.  Over time Kos became a kind of “provincial branch” of the Library of
Alexandria, and a center for learning that would include the likes of Hippocrates, the so called
“father of modern medicine,” wrote “any physician that does not take into account astrology
should not call himself a physician.”
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 8 / 17
Alexandria & Kos were centers of astrological learning.
Roman ruins on Kos
Alexandria would become the home in Roman Times of astrologer.  Claudius Ptolemy (90 AD – 168
AD), author of the Tetrabiblos, an astrological compilation that would influence astrological and
astronomical thinking in Europe for nearly 1,400 years.
Claudius Ptolemy (90 AD – 168 AD)    Example of Greek Astrological Chart circa 1st Century AD
The Roman absorption of Greek astrological ideas is evidenced by the mid 3rd Century BCE use of
the word “considerare” – latin – that literally means “serious contemplation of the stars or sky.”
This is the origin of the English word “consider.”
Some Romans condemned the use of astrology as a “foreign” influence to be resisted.  The first
formal “government” expulsion of astrologers from Rome was in 139 BCE.  However, by 87 BCE
Roman consuls and generals, like Sulla, Crassus, Pompey and Julius Caesar all received astrological
counsel.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 9 / 17
Roman Emperor, Augustus Caesar (Reign 27BCE – 14CE), Coin commemorating the position of the
Moon in Capricorn on the day of his birth Sept. 23rd 63BCE.  The sign of Capricorn was associated
with authority, and associated with Saturn, or Cronos, the ruler of the mythical “Golden Age”
outline in Hesiod’s Works and Days.  Thus this coin employed astrological symbolism as
propaganda, implying Augustus’ reign as the beginning of a Golden Age.
Astrology existed on two levels in Roman society:
Patrician or upper class: Astrology was a serious field of study.  Greek tutors hired to educate the
Roman elite spread astrological ideas and concepts that permeated the intellectual discourse of
the time; this astrology was practiced and understood on a high level of competence, training,
application and practice.
Plebian or lower class: Astrological ideas trickled down among the illiterate masses, mixing with
common superstitions.  The competence and intent of many “so-called” astrologers or
marketplace fortune tellers was suspect and operated on a level that fostered mistrust on the part
of authorities and lead to restrictive edicts and the arrest and expulsion astrologers labeled as
charlatans.
Following the emergence of Christianity as the State Religion of Rome, the ideas, concepts and
practice of astrology slowly came into disfavor in the Western Empire, and were eventually
banned or prohibited.  Scrolls and manuscripts were burned and the practice suppressed.  Some
texts were saved in monasteries, but most were destroyed.  Practitioners were condemned as
heretics, persecuted and driven underground.  Thus began the so-called “Dark Ages” of Western
Europe
In the Eastern Empire which spoke Greek, the “Byzantine Empire,” astrology continued on a bit
longer.  However, in 529 CE the Emperor Justinian issued a decree that ordered all pagan teachers,
including astrologers, to accept Christianity or risk exile and the confiscation of their property.  The
Platonic Academy in Athens was closed.  The teaching of law, philosophy and astrology was
banned by official decree.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 10 / 17
Medieval Astrology
Despite bans on astrology, persecutions, periodic purges, and Christian condemnations, astrology
continued to be practiced in Medieval Europe.  Ironically, as depositories of Classical texts and
manuscripts, monasteries along with the Vatican library became the archives for surviving
astrological texts. A few Popes privately studied or relied upon astrology despite public
denunciations.  Although some medieval astrologers were thought to be magicians, many were
highly respected scholars who correlated astrological traditions with the weather, the growth of
crops, people’s character or nature, and the inner workings of the human body.
Doctors often carried around special
almanacs, containing the zodiac positions of
the Sun, Moon, and planets, similar to a
modern ephemeris, enabling them to check
the positions listed before making a
diagnosis. Many of these almanacs included
pictures which helped explain complicated
ideas to patients. The picture on the left
shows a 'zodiac man' from an almanac dated
1399. The diagram was intended to explain
how the signs of the zodiac govern each part
of the body. The man's pointing finger serves
as a reminder of the powerful influences of
the signs. Ancient studies of astrology were
translated from Arabic to Latin in the 12th
and 13th centuries and soon became a part
of everyday medical practice in Europe.
Doctors combined Galenic medicine
(inherited from the Greek physiologist Galen
- AD 129-216) with careful studies of the
stars. By the end of the 1500s, physicians
across Europe were required by law to
calculate the position of the moon before
carrying out complicated medical
procedures, such as surgery or bleeding. *
*British Library: Learning Bodies of Knowledge http://www.bl.uk/learning/astrologyhome.html
Medieval Astrology was practiced concurrently with Islamic or Arabic Astrology, and was strongly
influenced by the Islamic continuation and further development of Classical Astrology.
Medieval Astrology “is the astrology of Abu Ma'shar, Messahallah, Abu 'Ali al-Khayyat, Ibn Ezra,
Bonatti, Montulmo, Gaurico, Nostradamus, John Dee, Placidus, Morinus and others. It is not the
astrology of hobbyists and charlatans but rather of men who lived in societies which valued
astrology as the Queen of the sciences.” Robert Zoller http://www.new-library.com/zoller/faq/
Robert Hand is considered the leading living authority on Medieval Astrology in the world
today.http://arhatmedia.com/
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 11 / 17
Astrology  in the “Golden Age of Islam,” mid 9th Century AD to mid 13th Century AD
Though there was considerable debate amongst Muslim clerics
about the astrology they had inherited from the ancient classical
world, what remained in Alexandria, and Babylon, etc. attracted
Muslim scholars and astrology again flourished in the land of its
origin.  To a great extent, it was through contact with the Muslim
world that the knowledge of the Classical World and astrology
would gradually re-enter Europe during the Middle Ages.  This
rediscovery of the Classical World would explode in the west as the
Renaissance from the 13th Century to the 17th Century.  Likewise the
decline of the Byzantine Empire and the final fall of Constantinople
in 1453 brought more astrological scholars seeking refuge to
Europe’s major cities and universities.
Astrology flourishes with the rediscovery of classical knowledge during the Renaissance
During the Renaissance astrology was studied and further developed in
Academia.  Once again the ancient ideas of Pythagoras would influence the
new astrologer/astronomers, including such
notables as Tycho Brahe and Johannes Kepler
(1571 – 1630).
Kepler, a protégé of Brahe’s, was both a
practicing astrologer and a brilliant astronomer.
His mathematical approach enabled him to be the
first to prove and demonstrate the “elliptical”
orbits of the planets, changing forever the old
dilemma of reconciling the concept of “circular”
planetary orbits.  He relied heavily upon geometry
and the traditions associated with Pythagoras.
In England, John Dee (1527 - 1608), was the Royal
Astrologer and personal astrologer of Queen
Elizabeth I.
William Lilly (1602 – 1681) He predicted the
Great Fire of London 14 years prior to the actual
1666 event.  Rumors that he had started the fire
led to a trial, during which he was found to be
entirely innocent.  His clientele included many
prominent leaders in Parliament.  His books are
still published today, and a recent reissue in
1985 of his Christian Astrology stirred new
interest in his work.
Tycho Brahe
Johannes Kepler
John Dee
William Lilly
Islamic astrologer Al-Biruni
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 12 / 17
A New Model of the Cosmos, our “Solar” System emerges…
During the Renaissance astrology was widely practiced and utilized.   However, the emergence of
new ideas and the Copernican Revolution promoted by Galileo and others, slowly brought about a
shift in perspective.  The shift in mind-set to a Heliocentric or “Sun Centered” system versus a
“Geocentric” system seemed to invalidate the framework of an astrological chart, drawn-up with
the Earth at the center of the chart wheel.  The discovery of previously unknown moons
orbitingJupiter and especially the growing scientific realization as to the greater distances between
the Earth and our Moon and Sun and planets and especially the “stars” emerged, and all notions of
astrology were thrown into doubt.
Yet, astrology was never “disproven,” just slowly abandoned by academia.  No “theory of
astrology,” other than Kepler’s ideas emerged.  No one could demonstrate scientific causality
without mathematical proofs or easy to demonstrate experiments.  Plus, there were no
“behavioral sciences” during the 1700’s or before.  No psychology existed, and the science of
statistics was in its infancy.  There was no way to accurately judge or access astrology; it just didn’t
seem to fit anywhere.
Astrologers continued to practice.  However, without
academic support and with continued religious disapproval
and opposition, professional practice declined throughout
the 1700’s and 1800’s in England and America.  With some
individual exceptions, astrology became a relic of its former
self, visible only in the pages of Almanacs – a curiosity to
most readers.  The astrological symbols found on the pages
of many almanacs became the only glimpse most people in
the West had of this field of knowledge to which so many
great minds had
contributed.
Typical astrological symbols listed in such almanacs as the Farmer’s Almanac still published in the
USA today, made famous by its accurate long range weather forecasts originally based upon
astrological principles that predated Ptolemy. The much dwindled practice of astrology was
perpetuated only by private tutoring and mentor relationships. The methods and techniques of
astrologers did not progress beyond those practiced in the late 1600’s.  The discovery of the planet
Uranus in 1781 and Neptune in 1846 were not noted in almanacs or in the scant astrological
publications that simply reprinted older texts.  There were no astrological organizations and no
peer review.  Where astronomy made great strides, astrology languished.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 13 / 17
Spiritualism and Psychology Emerge:  Interest in Astrology Re-emerges
Beginning in the mid to late 1800’s in England and America, a renewed interest in “spiritualism,”
made popular by such practices as “séances” and the phenomena of clairvoyant “mediums,”
created an atmosphere within which commonly held beliefs and notions regarding religion and
spirituality were brought into question.  This curiosity about all things “spiritual” led some to
investigate astrology.  At the same time the field of psychology began to emerge, as medicine and
science sought answers about the nature of the human “psyche” or “soul.”  Though spiritualism
gave rise to the study of astrology, psychology would prove to be the bigger influence on the
development of astrology in the 20th Century.
In both America and Europe the Theosophical Society became the magnet
organization for the exploration of spiritual beliefs and practices.  Rudolf
Steiner and others would emerge out of the Theosophical Society in pursuit
of ways to integrate spirituality or spiritual philosophies into our everyday
lives.  A number of key figures in modern astrology also sprang from the
Theosophical movement. In England, Alan Leo would become the most
prominent and influential, founding the Astrological Lodge of London in
1915. Alan Leo (1860 1917) devoted his life to the process of updating and
modernizing astrology.  His founding of the Astrological Lodge of London
would begin the process of organizing astrology into a cohesive field,
fostering education, study, research and professional publications.
In America there were some isolated cases of professional astrologers
practicing successfully, most notably a family of qualified physicians,
the Broughton family of Philadelphia.  All brothers, Luke, Mathew and
Mark followed their father’s profession of medicine and astrology,
Luke Broughton eventually publishing Elements of Astrology in 1898.
In America the Theosophical Society would also give rise to other
organizations such as the Rosicrucian Society, who offered
correspondence courses in astrology and began to publish a variety of
astrological texts and journals.  A number of prominent astrologers
began to appear on the American scene.  Most notable was the case of
Evangeline Adams (1868 – 1932).
In many parts of the USA in the early part of the 20th Century, astrology
was lumped together with “fortune telling” in legal codes, and was
prohibited.  In a landmark case in May of 1914 that gained nationwide
attention, astrologer Evangeline Adams was arrested for “fortune telling”
in New York.  Her professional demeanor and intelligence, along with the
support of colleagues and clients willing to testify on her behalf
impressed the courtroom.  She was acquitted by the Judge after
calculating a birth chart of the Judge’s son and providing the Judge with
the kind of information and insight she would normally offer clients.  This
case established a precedent that would begin to legally distinguish
astrology from fortune-telling in the USA.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 14 / 17
Psychology experiments with astrology and influences new astrological developments…
As previously noted, the parallel development of psychology in the late 1800’s and early part of the 20th
Century with the rediscovery of astrology.  Sigmund Freud’s (1856 -1939) most famous student was Carl
Jung (1875-1961).  Jung’s philosophical split from Freud was complete by 1917, and in 1930, Jung would
have this to say about astrology:
“Astrology is assured of recognition from psychology, without further restrictions,
because astrology represents the summation of all the psychological knowledge of
antiquity.”(Carl Jung, Speech delivered, May 10, 1930 in Munich)
Astrology would continue to develop in the USA throughout the
20th Century.  Prominent astrologers included Evangeline Adams,
but also Max Heindel, Nicholas de Vore, Llewellyn George, Manly
Hall, Marc Edmund Jones (1888 – 1980) left, and Dane Rudhyar
(1895 – 1985) pictured on the right with his wife Leyla in 1980.
The mid-1960’s through the 1990’s brought the first serious scientific investigations into astrology. The
most famous of these investigations by far were those of  French statistician and psychologist Michel
Gauquelin (1928 – 1991), who at first conducted simple tests regarding Sun Signs or Zodiac signs and could
find “no” significant correlations.   Testing further, he initially collected a data base of 27,000 birth dates
that included “birth times” from the European countries of France,
Italy, Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands.  His data base included
16,000 well known persons and 11,000 who worked in the same
professions without distinction.  Gauquelin was surprised at his
results.  He found that the position of Saturn was significant for
scientists, Jupiter for actors and politicians, Mars for athletes and
military leaders, and the Moon for poets or writers.  The odds of
these positions being “chance” varied with the planet in question.
With Saturn, the odds were 1 in 300,000 and with Mars 1 in 500,000.
Gauquelin would continue to collect data for over 30 years.  His
statistical work supported a planetary effect upon behavior.
Scientists in Europe were slow to accept Gauquelin’s findings, but
independent tests conducted in Europe supported his statistical
methods and results.  The only discrepancies occurred in the USA, in
what turned out to be a scientific scandal, where some scientists
deliberately altered the data base of athletes that Gauquelin had
collected.
Here
are the
zones of
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 15 / 17
high and low frequency that Gauquelin found for the planets using month, day, year, hour &
minute, and place of birth for 27,000 cases.
English astronomer, Percy Seymour, Charter Member of the Institute of
Physics, and Fellow Member of the Royal Astronomical Society  was
impressed by Gauquelin’s work and developed the first 20th Century theory
to support the “physical” basis of astrology.
Seymour proposed a theory based upon the Earth’s magnetic field.
Seymour explained that “resonance” was “amplified” by the Earth’s
magnetic field, increasing the effect of the planets caught in the ongoing
variations of the solar wind.
Seymour published his
theory in articles in the
mid-to-late 1980’s and in
his 1988 book Astrology
the Evidence of Science.
His theory created
controversy and
Seymour was denounced
by many peers, though
he continued to publish
and develop his theory
through the 1990’s.
By the 1990’s Western Astrology had established itself as a counseling alternative for many, having
borrowed ideas and concepts from psychology that had led to a reinterpretation of astrology from
a modern perspective.  Astrologers like Zipporah Dobyns, Liz Greene, Noel Tyl, and Stephen Arroyo
influenced a generation of practicing astrologers, many of whom obtained degrees in psychology
and related fields.
Zipporah Dobyns
Liz Greene
Noel Tyl
Stephen Arroyo
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 16 / 17
Classical Astrology is translated by “astrologers,” reviving interest in astrology’s roots!
However during the 1990’s Classical astrology and Medieval astrology also enjoyed a
resurgence of interest in the astrological community primarily as a result of “Project
Hindsight,” an admirable research project conducted by Robert Schmidt, Ellen Black,
Robert Hand, and Robert Zoller,  beginning in 1993 who studied “Greek” and “Latin”
so that they might better “translate ” existing texts of classical astrologers into
English.  Robert Schmidt remains the general
editor.http://www.projecthindsight.Scom/archives/history.html
In the USA, a number of professional astrological organizations emerged in the 20th Century.  The
most successful organization, thriving by the mid1960’s was the American Federation of
Astrologers or AFA founded in 1938.  The AFA sponsored classes, courses, and held national
conventions and most importantly was the first organization to offer national certification in
astrology on both the student and professional level.
In England the Astrological Lodge of London established professional standards and certification
programs, and spawned other organizations from its membership such as the Astrological
Association, and the Company of Astrologers.
During the 1960’s and 70’s, astrology experienced a kind of renaissance in the Western World.
The serious work of professional astrologers during the first half of the 20th Century had laid the
foundation for those baby boomers coming of age during this time.  An entire generation of young
people discovered astrology and the ranks of dedicated students and professionals grew
significantly.  New groups and professional organizations formed.  These organizations sponsor
conferences and symposiums, publish journals, and sponsor astrological study and research.  For
more on Astrological Research visit www.astrologynewsservice.com
Robert Zoller
Robert Hand
Robert Schmidt
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 21 17 / 17
Western Astrology has come a long way since Hellenistic Times, and has much to offer people in
solving the issues of life in the modern world.  Yet even the astrological charts of today reflect
the stone calendars of the ancient world when humankind understood that to everything “there
is a season.”