2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 1 / 7
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 25
Consultation Demonstration
©  www.nodoor.com
Female, age 36 going on 37
I didn't hold out much hope for being chosen when I applied for this case selection. I was
simply taking a shot, hoping God still remembers me. After all, I haven't put much effort into
my astrology study recently. That's why it is such a surprise for me to get the chance. I feel so
lucky and grateful.
"Why is the opportunity given to a student from Beijing again?" Some of the classmates
complained in wechat. At first I thought about leaving this precious chance to someone else.
I used to have a patternthat tended to avoid or give away things that everyone wanted,
everyone including me. I wanted to be appointed by the selector rather than be a
compromised choice. Should that selector show any sign of reluctance, I would give away or
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 2 / 7
blow up the chance no matter what. I was not inclined to be the second choice, whether in
kinship, friendship or love. But now, I am not that all-or-nothing. I start to consider my own
interests and favorites and leave more room for others and myself. So it didn't take long
before I began to prepare for this short article.
I was born in a relatively poor family. My parents don't get along very well. I have a biological
brother over two years younger than me, and an elder half-brother sharing the same father
with me(I've never met him. He had been born before father's marriage and had been given
away to someone else. It is said that he is now a military officer).
It became the worst nightmares of my childhood that I couldn't afford to pay my tuition, that
I was unable to do my homework due to black out, and that my parents and relatives would
fight with each other over money and relations, etc.
During my growing up, my mother kept telling me that had it not been for her old age, she
wouldn't have married my father. And my father, likewise, wouldn't stop complaining about
my mother's non-employment and illiteracy, and his marriage was completely based on us,
his children. My self-awareness of being an independent woman, both economically and
spiritually, was clearly established in my early life due to such environment.
Death is no stranger to me. When I was in primary school, my grandma, a person who cared
a lot about me, tried to commit suicide several times, and eventually she succeeded. I used
to believe that it was the unfair treatment of her family that resulted in her suicide.
Therefore, I swore to myself that I would never give in to fate. I would not suffer from
injustice like my grandma did. She had already sacrificed her life, and I must live my life to
the fullest.
Later I realized that it was wrong to try to accomplish something out of anger. Rather, it
should be for releasing burdens of others and my family. I would give my parents financial
help when I grow up, but I would never get married or have a child for the purpose of
meeting anyone else's expectations, except myself. I hope that every time I choose
something, it's from the bottom of my heart, not to repress my needs in order to cater to
the standards of someone else.In the second half year of 2013, before my father's death
from cancer, my aunt asked me if I was afraid that my father would die with a grievance. A
voice from inside suddenly came up to me——I am only afraid that I will die with a
grievance.
I'vehad a feeling for what's going to happen in the future since I was young. For example, I
can feel the barometer of my state going up and down in a four-year cycle. I've always kept a
cool head and strong will. I know exactly what I want and strive for it. I've worked hard for
30 years without a tiny bit of fear for being a left-over lady(I have a feeling that time doesn't
exist). My current hobbies, job and relationships are all chosen from the bottom of my heart
without any reluctance, and I love them all. I never compare myself with anyone, and I don't
care if other people do. I just don't have the awareness of comparison, and that's why I am
so satisfied with myself.
However, I have some health problems recently. I've been treated in Peking Union Medical
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 3 / 7
College Hospital over the past year. It's a nervous-system related disease and can lead to
acroparalysis and blindness in the worst case scenario if it progresses. But I am not afraid,
and think of it as a good thing. Indeed, I can always see or find out the bright side of
anything. This disease, I think, is caused by my years of nervous tension and malnutrition,
and I can recover from it. Although suffered from disease, I am still happy that I can enjoy
treatment resources from such a top-level hospital, and use my disease as an excuse to
blatantly refuse some of the unreasonable tasks from my company. I thus get to strike a
balance between my hobbies, work and life. How lucky of me! I feel like I've made the most
use of my time and have lived a lifetime three times longer than others. Until now, I am still
the person I like, so I am very pleased.
But at present I still have some confusion, mostly about relations:
Pattern one: I don't know how to make a request. I get stuck and feel uncomfortable when it
comes to making a request. The thought of being rejected and facing difficulties purposefully
made for me always comes first. Since I probably cannot get what I want, I may as well stay
silent, long enough until I cannot put up with it anymore. Then I begin to stammer it out.
Pattern two: I don't trust people. I've got this extreme thought that only a few people and I
dare to be ourselves. Other people are just acting and making do with their lives. I despise
them. I treat them in an extreme and violent manner and put up a wall against them.
Pattern three: I don't know how to communicate in a peaceful way. If I care about you but
cannot feel your equivalent care, I will immediately turn into my indifferent nature and
sentence you to death in my heart. I feel especially angry and sad when someone
misunderstands me, but I won't say anything nor explain. I will even follow his heart and
make his miscomprehension come true on purpose.
I've always been stuck in these three patterns. How do I deal with them? Hope you can give
me some help, thanks!
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 4 / 7
Transits and Secondary Progressions Sept 20 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 5 / 7
Solar Arc Sept 20 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 6 / 7
Solar Return 2015 – 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 25 7 / 7
Solar Return 2016 – 2017