2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  1 / 11
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five
Lesson 14 Solar Arc Demonstration
© www.nodoor.com
Birth Information:
Name: F703 Jane
Birth data:
Jan 24th, 1988 13:50
Baoding, Hebei, China
ASC: Gemini 16°42, MC: Aquarius 23°26 (in Kepler)
(All above can be opened to public)
Background and General Personal History:
I grew up in a family with rigid parental discipline. My parents were both
conservative and mighty. I liked study and always got good results. Yet I was
somewhat unsociable, eccentric and quiet, with few hobbies. However, I liked to
explore my inner thoughts, and had many ideas. During middle school in 2001, I
began to have good friends. I loved English even when I was very young. I studied
abroad when I was at college. In Sept. 2008, I went abroad. Three years’
experience of studying abroad brought a lot of influence to me. I felt I should be a
foreigner in my last life, as I liked western culture and food.
After I came back to China, I began to work for a bank. I didn’t really like the job in
the financial industry, but there weren’t other fields I was particularly interested
in. Because the salary was pretty good, I continued to work in the bank. In March
2015, I began to devote myself to astrology study and psychology study, and
couldn’t stop these studies. The income of my job gave me freedom to spend my
free time as I liked. I could also afford the courses I liked. I was independent
economically. I liked to be alone, and also liked to get together with my friends
when we were free. However, the intimate relationship seemed to be out of my
control all the time.
In Feb. 2014, I met my husband, and we got married in Sept. 2014. In the second
half of the year 2015, I began to sense that there were more and more conflicts
between us which were out of control. We usually quarreled with each other, as
he was also very irritable. My family members urged me to have a child, but I
dared not to. My husband also wanted a child, so he got disappointed at me. At
that time, I suspected that I had depression. I got confused with my marriage. I
had some sessions of psychological consultation. I gradually got better, became
more cheerful, and opened my heart. At the same time, I began to study
psychology, learning to understand myself and the original family.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  2 / 11
NATAL CHART F703 JANE
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  3 / 11
Time-line biography:
Before I was 3 years old, most of the time, I lived with my grandparents (my mother’s parents),
my uncle (my mother’s brother) and his wife in Baoding, Hebei Province, while my parents
worked in another city. At the age of 3, I moved to Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, to live with my
parents.
Solar Arc bi-wheel for January 24, 1991
1991~1994: I remembered that I dared not to play with other kids or talk, as I was very timid.
My mother seldom accompanied me. Most of the time, it was my father who was with me. My
mother was bad-tempered. When she saw me crying, she got so angry that she would beat me.
I always had a very complicated feeling towards my mother. When she quarreled with my father
or beat me, I felt very desperate. I lived in a very big family when I was a little girl. I lived with
my parents, my grandparents (my father’s parents) and the family of my father’s elder brother,
and I often witnessed quarrels in the big family where female members were more mighty.
When I was young, I was introverted and obedient, always did my homework seriously, and
liked to observe the world quietly.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  4 / 11
Solar Arc bi-wheel for September 1, 2000
In Sept. 2000, I went to junior middle school. At that time, I liked words and writing. However, I
always failed in math exams. I started to become internally rebellious. My thoughts were both
perceptual/sensitive and precocious. I was no longer lonely as I had very good friends. In my
memory, every day was as colorful as the oil painting, full of fantasies. I usually talked with
myself, and I still keep the habit now.
When I was in high school, roughly from Nov. 2003 to Jul. 2004, I felt lonely and depressed for
the first time in my life. I went to see a psychologist who I thought was unprofessional. I still
studied hard, and was obedient and sensible in front of my parents.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  5 / 11
Solar Arc bi-wheel for September 1, 2005
In Sept. 2005, I began to lose weight and wear long hair, and looked pretty. I lost 7.5 kilograms
in one month. I was on diet and exercised crazily every day. I hadn’t had regular diets for two
years since then. Exercising becomes a continuous habit in my life.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  6 / 11
Solar Arc bi-wheel August 1, 2008
In Aug. 2008, I myself chose to go to Canada to study, as I yearned for the overseas experience
and liked English language and Western cultures. Three years’ experience of studying abroad
had great impact on my life. 90% of my dreams were about studying and living in schools in
foreign countries where there were people of different nationalities. I often spoke English in my
dreams.
In Aug. 2009, I broke up with my first boyfriend. We had been together for two years, but we
lived in different places. In Sept. 2009, I began the relationship with my second boyfriend, and
we broke up in Jun. 2011. Then I came back to China, lived with my parents, and soon started to
work for a bank.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  7 / 11
Solar Arc bi-wheel for November 1, 2011
In Nov. 2011, I met my third boyfriend. At that time, I thought he was my Mr. Right for marriage.
We got engaged in Apr. 2012, and broke up with each other in Oct. 2012. We experienced
breakups and reconciliations, and had many quarrels. We finally discovered that we had
different views of world, value and life.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  8 / 11
Solar Arc bi-wheel for May 1, 2013
In May, 2013, my grandfather (my father’s father) passed away.
In Aug. 2013, I moved out of my parents’ house and started to live on my own in another
community of the same city. However, I often went back to visit them.
From Jun. 2013 on, my mother seldom went out on business trips. She nearly became a
housewife. She had traveled a lot for over ten years, and she earned most of the family fortune.
My father hadn’t changed his job for about 20 years. He worked for a newspaper from 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day. However, he hadn’t got any promotion.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  9 / 11
Solar Arc bi-wheel February 1, 2014
In Feb. 2014, I met my present husband. We got married in Jan. 2015.
In Feb. 2015, he was suddenly promoted to chief editor. But the newspaper industry was in
downturn, so he had a lot of pressure and became busy and bad-tempered. My parents’ work
and life encountered huge changes in these two years.
In Mar. 2015, I got to love astrology, and became devoted to the research and discussion of an
astrological community.
In Jun. 2015, I felt I was in the second depression phase in my life. I lost all my hobbies and
interests. Later, I met my first psychological consultant, and I had consultations regularly. The
whole process lasted about two months. During those consultations, I began to like psychology,
and found myself suitable to learn psychology, so I started the study of psychoanalysis and sand
table simulation courses.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  10 / 11
At the end of Nov. 2015, I got the certification of psychological consultant. However, my
relationship with my husband was in crisis, and we quarreled a lot. My family members urged
me to have kids, but I didn’t want to. I didn’t understand why I didn’t want to have kids,
because I was not a person who didn’t like kids, and I was well-prepared to have kids. Therefore,
I went to have psychological consultations for the third time.
At the end of Jan. 2016, my husband and I began to live separately, and had self-reflection
separately.
In Mar. 2016, I began to see another psychological consultant, who is older. I thought she was
more suitable for me and helped heal me a lot regarding my original family and myself. I
gradually let go my past discontent on my mother and myself, and began to accept my true self.
Solar Arc bi-wheel July 5 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 14  11 / 11
Current issues, questions and concerns:
After our separation, my husband kept trying to restore our relationship. I tried to restore it too,
but I always felt powerless. I thought it’s pretty good to live alone, so I got puzzled. How to
continue the marriage without love?
Regarding my job in the bank, I don’t really like it, and I’m not passionate about it. I hold this
position mainly because I can get substantial income and get to know a lot of people. I could
use my income to support my hobbies and studies and expand my social circles. I have enough
free time at night and at weekends. However, this is not my goal of career. I’m still trying to find
my goal. I hope someday I can have an independent career which will bring me more freedom
and more fun.
While my life is without too much obstacles, I always long for challenges and differences from
others.
I like to be financially independent. I like being alone, and enjoy being alone. I love studying. I
have good relationships with my friends, but I encounter a lot of puzzles in my intimate
relationship which I don’t know how to handle. I would temporarily feel desperate for my life,
but it doesn’t seem to reach a serious degree.
The problem I would like to discuss with David is I wonder what I want in relationships and jobs.
I’m a bit confused at the view of value, and I’m not confident enough.
Currently, what I want more is spiritual growth. I kind of want to escape from my relationship. I
know this is also because I myself lack the sense of security. Especially from Jan. till now in this
year, the stagnation lasts, Venus forms conjunction with Neptune, and the cross made by
Saturn, Mars, Neptune and Jupiter is just on my angles. I’m confused in terms of my
relationship, feeling nothing seems to be what I want. However, my study goes pretty well. I
study and get inspiration from the stress, enhancing my energy.
In the past, sometimes I felt unconfident, thinking myself was boring, timid, unsociable and
eccentric. Sometimes I felt I must have some special value or talent, which made me very
confident. My thoughts were often polarized. Now I gradually manage to avoid that kind of
polarized emotions. Most of the time I’m very calm emotionally.
What puzzles me most is the relationship. My marriage gives me the feeling of insecurity. The
wound won’t easily get healed. I think it’s pretty good to be alone, but I’m also afraid of losing
my partner, which is a very contradictory situation. I don’t know what I want. I quite admire
those who think companionship is both wonderful and necessary. I seldom have that kind of
feeling.
I’m also puzzled at my career. Now I come to realize maybe my ideal career is in the fields of
psychology and astrology? Because it’s really hard to meet something one likes. My psychology
teacher also said I was suitable to learn psychology and astrology. Will this path be a good
choice? I still want to take my time.