2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   1 / 9
2016 Level Five Lesson 7 Compatibility Indicators
SYNASTRY CHARTS and Relationship Trends
© www.nodoor.com
When attempting to understand compatibility you need to consider
the compatibility triangle.  All significant couple relationships will
show a mix of these 3 areas in their birth charts and with trends.
The Compatibility Triangle
The Ideal in an Ideal World
Everything is trine and sextile!
Like elements
predominate.
Family Patterns and Childhood
Timing: the cosmic weather
Includes: Birth, family history,
Trends: transits, progressions, &
developmental influences and karma
solar arc
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   2 / 9
SYNASTRY:
Synastry means
chart comparison using two natal charts.
The natal chart of one person is put in the center of the chart wheel, while the
natal chart of the other person is put around it in the outer wheel.  Then this
is reversed, with the chart of the person that was in the outer wheel now
placed as the center chart of the wheel with the other person chart around it
in the outer wheel.  In this way a more complete picture of compatibility
issues can be revealed.  The bi-wheel chart is used to make a comparison.
Two Bi-wheel charts allow a complete comparison of both charts to occur.
It is important that both people know their birth times, since the houses are a
significant factor in Synastry.  However, even simple comparison without the
birth time can yield “some” information that is useful.  The Moon and houses
will remain uncertain or unknown, but the planetary comparison will show
some of the dynamics.  Nonetheless, when the birth time is known for both
people, a more complete analysis of compatibility can be made.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   3 / 9
The following 2 charts represent the Synastry of a couple with an unusual
story.  These two people have been involved with each other for 30 years.
Look at the natal charts of each one before you study the bi-wheels in
comparison with each other.  The man’s natal chart is in the center of the first
chart below.  The woman’s natal chart is in the center of the chart afterwards.
Now, what does the bi-wheel chart comparison enable you to see?  Look at
the houses that each other’s planets fall in.
Boyfriend in the center wheel and his longtime girlfriend in the outer wheel.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   4 / 9
Observe this comparison/synastry and notice the close aspects and houses.
What themes do they share?  Remember to include aspects when looking for
themes.  For example, aspects with Pluto resonate with Scorpio themes.
Girlfriend in the center wheel and longtime Boyfriend in the outer wheel.
Observe this comparison/synastry and notice the close aspects and houses.
Ask yourself questions about both chart comparisons, such as:
 What is implied by her Moon, Neptune, South Node in Scorpio in his 12th house?
 Notice that his Moon falls in her 12th house.  What could that mean?
 What is suggested by the close aspects to his Uranus from her Moon-Neptune
square to Mars?
 What do you think her Pluto and Uranus conjunct his MC might mean?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   5 / 9
 What about her Uranus and Pluto on his North Node?
 What do you think the Sun Moon conjunction between them implies?
 What issues or challenges arise from their Mercury’s being square each other?
 Notice that his Sun, Venus and ASC are square her Venus.  What could that mean?
2. Second Couple
This couple has been happily married for over 25 years, but they have no children.  They
share a Sun Moon conjunction in Virgo just like the last couple we looked at but their
relationship is more conventional.  Why do you think this is so?  What’s different about
this couple from the last couple?
Husband is in the center wheel and his wife is in the outer wheel.
What do you notice about their ASC positions in comparison to each other?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   6 / 9
Wife in the center wheel and husband in the outer wheel.
Remember!  It is essential to study both natal charts first and
understand the natal chart issues before attempting to
analyze the Synastry.  Without a thorough understanding of
the natal charts your grasp of their relationship with each
other could be flawed.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   7 / 9
3. Third Couple – this couple has 2 children and have been married for over 30 years.
Wife in the center wheel and husband in the outer wheel.
This couple has successfully weathered the normal ups and downs of life.
What do you see in their Synastry that supports the likelihood of their long
term adaptive potential as a couple?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   8 / 9
Husband in the center wheel and wife in the outer wheel.
Not every long term couple will be born with such obvious astrological
connections or similarities, but many will have important Sun and Moon or
Moon and Moon conjunctions or close harmonious aspects between the Sun
and Moon or Moon and Moon.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 7   9 / 9
Relationship Trends with Transits…
Questions regarding transiting trends:
1. With couple number one, what transits over the last 6 months might have
affected their relationship?  What transits might correspond to healing over
the next couple of years?
2. With couple number two, what transits between August 2009 and July
2010 might have impacted their relationship?  What issues and or situations
might have arisen during this time?  What kind of developments could this
have led to?  (Clue: consider the transits that had been going on with the
wife during the previous year.)
3. With couple number three, what transits in the year 1980 would have
been significant in their development as a couple?  How would you
characterize these trends in 1980?  What issues do you think might have
surfaced during this period?