www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 1
2016 Nodoor Core Course
Level Five Lesson 1：TRANSITS
© www.nodoor.com
Welcome to Level 5 Lesson 1.  In the next 4 lessons we will cover transits
intensively.  The fastest way to learn how to use transits is with an old fashioned
Ephemeris, like The American Ephemeris for the 21st Century 2000 to 2050
shown below.  You can quickly flip the pages and see the movement of the
transits faster than with any software.  Software only provides select pages.
In addition to purchasing this book on Amazon, you can also go to
http://www.astro.com/swisseph/swepha_z.htm and print out the 21st Century
pages.  Plus there is an iPhemeris software app you can download.
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 2
Transits – “Life is constantly in motion!”
Transits are the most widely used forecasting methodology in western astrology.
Learning how to interpret and explain transits effectively is the focus of our next
four webinars.  The skills you acquire in understanding transits will evolve as you
evolve.  These are the cycles of our lives.
What is the correct definition for transits?
A transit is simply the measurement of the movement of the Sun, Moon, planets
or lunar nodes along the 360 degree path of the Zodiac.  Transits are usually
compared to a person’s birth chart in a bi-wheel, with the transits for any time
period in the outside wheel and the birth chart in the center.
Yes, however transits also represent cycles.  For example, we know that Uranus
and Pluto have been within orb of squaring each other off and on for the last 6
years.  This is part of the Uranus Pluto cycle that began with a conjunction back in
the mid-1960’s.  Since 2010 Uranus has been making a waxing square to Pluto.
Yes, these “world transits” or cycles can be seen as the global cosmic weather for
humanity.  Astrologer Richard Tarnas discusses the larger cycles involving the outer
planets in Cosmos & Psyche, in which he uses a wide planetary orb of 15 degrees
for historical and cross-cultural pattern correlation of these long term cycles.
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 3
Okay, so you’re saying there are two kinds of transits?  The transit to your natal
chart and the world transits.  Yet these are really the same thing aren’t they?  I
mean, how does this work exactly on the individual level?  This is a bit confusing to
me.  I just want to be clear about this.
It sounds complicated, but it really isn’t.  World transits certainly impact all of us,
but with individual variables for each person that depend upon how the transit
interacts with their natal chart.  Here’s one example below.  By the way, the orb
for all transiting aspects is 3 degrees applying and 1 degrees separating!
Female client transits to natal
for February 15, 2015 at 4:00
P.M. CST in Monroe, LA, USA
Bi-wheel showing transits in the outer
wheel with the natal chart in the center
wheel.  Transiting Uranus was again
applying towards a square to transiting
Pluto as part of the “world transits” in
effect in February 2015.  Uranus was
only 49 minutes of orb from an exact
square to Pluto, which would become
exact on March 17, 2015.  However at
4:00 p.m. on February 15, the rapidly
transiting Moon was aspecting this
Uranus-Pluto square.  In its monthly
cycle the Moon would trigger this
Uranus-Pluto square by hard aspects -
conjunction, square or opposition –
every 7 days.  Transits are in effect all
over the globe at the same moment.
The Moon at 13°     58’ at 4:00 P.M. CST
in the Monroe, Louisiana in the USA is
the same moment as 5:00 A.M. Beijing
time in China on February 16.  In the
outer wheel you’ll notice a transiting Asc and MC.  Learn to IGNORE the transiting MC and Asc in the outer wheel.
The transiting MC and Asc might occasionally be important on a local level, but they move very fast!  The transiting
MC moves 1° every 4 minutes of time, with the transiting Asc sometimes moving as much as 2° every 4 minutes of
time for the faster moving Ascendants like Pisces and Aries in the northern hemisphere.  The transiting MC and Asc
represent the “local house positions” specific to place, and are “not” part of the world transits.
What do you notice when you compare the outer planet transits of Uranus and
Pluto to this woman’s natal chart?   With the red and green lines I’ve made it easy
for you to see that Pluto is squaring her natal Venus and Sun, while Uranus is
conjunct her natal Venus and Sun.  In addition the transiting Moon joins this trend.
Yes, David has made seeing transiting Uranus and Pluto easy!  There are so many
transits at any one time that it can at first be very confusing!  Learning how to
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 4
prioritize which transits have the most importance is the first thing you need to learn.   Study
the following transits and memorize these transiting priorities.
Transiting Priorities – “What do you look for first?”
Answer: The Outer Planets
“Letting go is not the same thing as giving-up; giving-up means you don’t care anymore, letting go means
you still care but you’ve let go of expectations.  Not caring means part of you is dead and that part of you
will not be reborn until you can care again.”  DR
1. PLUTO sets the stage for potential “transformation,” often marking rites of passage such as
the birth of children in the extended family and or the loss of
relatives and family members.   In effect for a period spanning
at least 3-years, the urge to transform our lives is never more
intense.  Resistance to this urge can deepen self-destructive
behavior.  Power battles in career or personal life are common;
confrontation is typical.  The need to gain more control over
our lives often involves letting go of beliefs or expectations
that are no longer relevant and clearly identifying what we are the most passionate about.   The
desire to resolve long term problems and fundamentally change deep seated patterns is often
characterized by the surfacing of unresolved core issues from the past.  This is the best trend
for facing fears and “karma burning.”  The rewards of a Pluto transit are a “deeper more
intimate relationship with life.”  In the aftermath of crisis or even catastrophe one can become
more aware of what is gained and what is lost in every moment, and become more deeply alive
than ever before.  Such transformation is healing on a deep level.
“ Not until we are lost can we begin to understand ourselves.”
Thoreau
2. NEPTUNE sets the stage for healing, spiritual growth and spiritual
realignment, and is often marked by a period of overwhelming
disillusionment and confusion, followed by inspiration and re-
envisioning one’s life.  Whatever Neptune aspects becomes more
sensitive.  The urge to escape, to run away from everything is pervasive.
Escapist habits with drugs or alcohol can worsen, undoing one’s life
until one hits bottom.  Avoiding reality makes a person more
vulnerable to con-artists and deceptive persons.   Taking  time off from
work, or an extended leave of absence is common.  Both spiritual and
creative inspirations are more likely.  For you creative people these
Neptune transits can mark the most creative periods of your life.
Those of you on a conscious spiritual path may experience varying levels of enlightenment.
Sometimes Neptune transits coincide with illness and recovery.  During the healing and
recovery period both creative and or spiritual developments can increase your capacity for
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 5
inspiration.  At first it may seem that your life has not turned out as your imagined it would, but
then a new vision of your life takes hold and inspires a new direction; such inspiration may
guide you the rest of your life.
“Liberation is freedom with direction, rebellion is recklessness without it.”  DR
3. URANUS transits coincide with periods of sudden change
and sudden realizations.  Circumstances are typically chaotic
and full of unexpected developments.  The urge to reinvent
one’s life stirs tremendous restlessness.  Internal and
external shocks can seem to turn your world upside down.
However, the opportunity to rearrange your life in ways that
had never occurred to you before can by surprisingly
liberating.  Likewise, liberation can mean liberating yourself
from outmoded ways of going about your life.  You may
simply have reached a point where you can’t continue doing the same-old-same-old.  Rebellion
and recklessness represent the destructive side of this trend.  Finding a new direction usually
require experimentation.  Once your new direction becomes obvious liberation is irresistible.
Uranus transits can be highly inventive times in your life, when new ideas stimulate the most
original work you’ve done in your life.  The thrill of being a part of something new with a new
sense of contribution is one the satisfying rewards, as you look around at the changed
landscape of your life.
Pluto (248 years) and Neptune (165 years) both have such long cycles that we will never
experience their return in our life.  Pluto moves fastest through Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius,
meaning if you were born in 1986 you would have your first Pluto square in 2028, around age 42
(close to the Uranus opposition).  Neptune’s first square is around age 41 (again coincident),
while the opposition occurs at ages 82 – 83, just prior to the Uranus return.
Uranus Cycle
Age 62 - 63
Birth/Uranus Return age 84                             Age 41 - 42
Age 20 - 21
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 6
Transiting Priorities continued – “What to look for next.”
“Time is what keeps everything from happening all at once.” Ray Cummings
4. SATURN transits test our ability to handle our duties and responsibilities.
During Saturn transits we can learn how to manage our tasks more
efficiently.  Likewise our commitments are tested, be it in career or personal
life.  We can discover what we are serious about – what is the most
important to us.  “Saturn loves a plan!”  So the key with Saturn often lies in
developing a realistic plan for accomplishing our goals.  Saturn can “feel”
restrictive, but much really depends upon how we have limited ourselves
with limited thinking and restrictive beliefs.  During a Saturn transit it is
normal to fluctuate between pessimism and realism.  Those who struggle
with managing their lives successfully can become depressed during a Saturn
transit.  It can seem that obstacles and pressures make getting some
accomplished difficult, but this is part of the learning curve.  Whatever we encounter tends to reflect “our patterns”
or our way of achieving our objectives for better or for worse.  The delays or setbacks we may experience can be
incredibly frustrating, but Saturn is as much the gift of time as it is the pressure of time.  We can “take the time” to
learn what delays offer us.  The benefits of a Saturn transit are the benefits of a more effectively managed life.
This is a transit that tends to become easier to handle with age.  Maturity is another gift from Saturn, as is
discipline and efficiency.  Learning how to better structure your life is the overall theme of this trend.
Saturn Cycles
Age 21 – 22
Birth/Saturn Return age 29 – 30
Age  14 - 15
Age 7 – 8
1st Quadrant – Self-development, personal goals
2nd Quadrant – Establishing foundation, long range goals
3rd Quadrant – Building relationships, climbing to the top
4th Quadrant – Achievement plateau, contribution
1st Quadrant
2nd Quadrant
3rd  Quadrant
4th  Quadrant
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 7
Transiting Priorities continued – “What to look for next.”
5. LUNAR NODES transits are rarely written about in modern astrology, except for their
mention in relationship to Eclipses.  However, these transits are important, showing areas of
emphasis in our lives in the areas they transit.  For example, if the North Node is transiting your
10th House the South Node is transiting your 4th House.  Such a transit shows increased tension
between professional life and private life, with greater pressure to find ways to better
coordinate career and home life.  Though the North Node usually points to new areas of
development versus where things tend to stay the same; it is the “tension” between the two
nodes that shows up in more obvious ways.  Also, the Lunar Nodes transit “backwards” through
the zodiac.  By the time the transiting North Node conjuncts your MC it has been transiting your
10th house for approximately 1 ½ years, likewise the South Node would’ve been transiting your
4th house for this same period.  When a Node makes contact with a planet in a house it will
emphasize the nature and meaning of this planet.  For example, if the North Node is transiting
your H10 Sun this would tend to highlight important career developments.  New efforts in new
territories are likely to be expanding your professional role in some way.  Whereas the South
Node transiting your H10 Sun indicates that your role professionally is more of a continuation
of what you’ve already been doing, with the new developments occurring in personal and
family life.
The Lunar Nodes also correspond to a developmental life cycle.  The first full cycle is 18.6 years.
Each nodal return represents a period of potential realignment with your sense of life purpose.
Make a note of these years:  18.6, 37.2, 55.8, 74.4, and 93, listed in Green below “defining ages”
for fulfillment phase.  The years 9.3, 27.9, 46.5, 65.10, and 83.70 are also listed in yellow for
security phase, when the nodes are exactly opposite their birth position.
LIFE CYCLES and THE LUNAR NODES
North Node
South Node
age progression
fulfillment phase
defining ages
security phase
transitional ages
0 to 4.65 years
4.65 years
4.65 to 13.9 years
9.3 years
13.9 years
13.9 to 23.2 years
18.6 years
23.2 years
23.2 to 32.6 years
27.9 years
32.55 years
32.6 to 41.9 years
37.2 years
41.85 years
41.9 to 51.1 years
46.5 years
51.1 years
51.1 to 60.4 years
55.80 years
60.4 years
60.4 to 69.7 years
65.10 years
69.7 years
69.7 to 79 years
74.40 years
79 years
79 to 88.3 years
83.70 years
88.3 years
88.3 to 97.6 years
93.00 years
97.6 years
Diagram: Showing the natural flow of the Lunar Node cycle over the course of a lifetime.  The defining ages of each cycle
represent the key year of each phase.  Transitional ages correspond to the shift from one phase to another.
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 8
Transiting Priorities continued – “What to look for next.”
6. JUPITER transits coincide with times
when you are more likely to say “yes” and
attract encouragement.   These are times
when your sense of humor can return.  You
may begin to look at the possibilities of your
life more optimistically.  This can be a phase
of expansion in your life in whatever house
Jupiter is transiting.  Your attitude of
exuberance and enthusiasm can seem to
almost create so called good luck, which can be experienced most strongly in contact with your
Asc MC and personal planets.  Though generally we think of expansion as a
“good” thing, this is certainly not always the case.  Waste, excessiveness,
overindulgence and extravagance are also expressions of Jupiter, which can
result in our creating “bigger” problems in our lives than we had before.  Is
bigger always better?  It can be challenging to say “no” during a Jupiter
transit, yet the key is always “the middle path.”  Finding constructive ways to
use this period is the key.  Jupiter transits typically coincide with increased
travel, education and philosophical or religious realizations.
The Jupiter life cycle clearly marks periods of growth, stimulation and the challenges of growth in our
lives.  Examine these Jupiter cycles and see what other cycles some of these ages coincide with.  You
can learn a lot about natural life cycles from looking for connections between ages.
Jupiter Cycles
Age 9, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81
Birth/Saturn Return age 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84                   Age 6, 18, 30, 42,, 54, 66, 78
Age 3, 15, 27, 39, 51, 63, 75, 87
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 9
Transiting Priorities continued – “What to look for next.”
7. MARS transits coincide with times of action and reaction. The
urge to “do something” resonates with the adrenal response of
fight or flight.  This is not surprising considering Mars is associated with
the adrenal glands.  Except for when Mars is retrograde, Mars transits
are relatively short term lasting a week to ten days.  More importantly
Mars transits can act as a “trigger” for longer terms aspects, challenging
us to consider actions during periods of tremendous change and
upheaval in your life.  It’s crucial to watch for Mars transits during long term major transits.  Our
learning curve can accelerate as a result of these heated challenging streaks.  Whatever house
Mars is transiting will show “where the action is.”  Transits to the Asc MC and personal planets
are experienced with an immediacy that can be quite stimulating, for better or for worse –
depending upon what “you” do or how “you” react.
Mars retrogrades nearly every two
years, approximately 1 year and 11
months apart.  This will keep Mars
within a relatively narrow band of the
zodiac in your natal chart.
Here is a diagram of our Earth as it
overtakes Mars in our mutual orbits
around the Sun, making Mars
appear to stall and move backwards
before moving forward again.
Look back in your life at Mars
retrograde periods.  Plus, there is
another one about to happen next
month!
Yes!  On April 17, 2016 Mars will Rx at
8 degrees of Sagittarius at 20:15
Beijing Time.
Then Mars will go Direct (D) at 23
degrees of Scorpio on June 30, 2016
at 7:40 Beijing Time.  That means
that the zodiac span of this
retrograde Mars is as follows:
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Direct
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 10
Transiting Priorities continued – “What to look for next.”
A Yearly cycle
8. SUN transits generally last about 4 days.
The transiting Sun repeats the same cycle every year.  We might have some times of year
where we feel more challenged and other times of year where we tend to be more
energized or feel less stressed.  Look at how the Sun moves around your chart every year
and look for a pattern.  Like Mars, the Sun can also act as a trigger for long term transits.
8. VENUS also takes a year to move through the zodiac from
our earths perspective, but Venus goes Rx too!
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 11
Venus continued…
Venus Retrograde (Rx)
For those of you that would like to learn more “technically” about the movements of Venus the
following diagram could be very useful.  Many of the cycles of Venus are shown in this diagram.
For example, Venus appears to conjunct the Sun in the Zodiac every year, (8), but this “exterior
conjunction” or, “superior conjunction” as astronomers call it, differs in that Venus is on the
“other side” of the Sun.
So it is that not every Sun Venus conjunction is the same.  Think of the interior conjunction, the
Rx Venus, as the beginning of a cycle and the exterior conjunction as the fuller manifestation of
what began with the Rx Venus conjunction.
This diagram also shows that Venus is sometimes the so called Morning Star and sometimes the
Evening Star.  Likewise, Venus has phases – like the Moon – as depicted near the bottom.  A
study of these astronomical features of Venus can tell us more about the subtle meanings of this
socially stimulating planet, whose brilliance on a clear night often dominates the sky – as do our
longings for love and
relationship fulfillment.
The last Retrograde
Venus was on July 25,
2015 at 0 degrees of
Virgo.  Venus went
Direct at 14 degrees of
Leo on September 6,
2015.  To grasp the full effect of Venus,
remember to count from when Venus
first crossed 14 degrees of Leo, on
June 22, 2015 all the way until Venus
goes past 0 degrees of Virgo on
October 9.
Now consider this time
frame between June
22, 2015 and October
9, 2015.
Think about the house
or houses that Venus
transited in your chart.
What do you remember about
this last Retrograde Venus in
your life in 2015?
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 12
8. MERCURY moves fast, sometimes 2 degrees in a day; so a Mercury transit can sometimes
be over in less than 2 days.   A Mercury transit is all about the flow of communication.  Mercury
can also
Mercury Retrograde
Relax… take a deep breath… that’s it.  Chances are, if you’re thirty years old you’ve
already lived through 105 of these retrograde Mercury phases because they
happen 3 times a year and more than likely you’ll do just fine through the next 105
phases.  A retrograde Mercury is nothing to dread.
It’s a natural cycle that has to do with the simple astronomical fact of Mercury’s 88
day orbit around the Sun versus our 365 day orbit.  Because Mercury is so far away
from us, 92 million km, it appears from our point of view to retrace its path through
the sky when travelling between the Earth and the Sun.
Astronomers call Mercury’s exact line-up between us and the Sun an “inferior
conjunction,” because it’s the shorter of the two conjunctions, the other being the
“superior conjunction” that occurs when Mercury is on the opposite side of the
sun and further away.
Because we astrologers associate the planet Mercury with the flow of information,
these retrograde Mercury phases have become notorious for delays, slow-downs,
and a variety of mishaps that often seem to point to an increase in mental errors.
Wait a minute!  Don’t you think we’d notice if 3 times a year, for approximately 3
weeks at a time, 7 billion people began to make more mistakes in judgment?!”
It doesn’t affect everyone the same way, or even at the exact same day or hour.  A
retrograde Mercury can be constructive or destructive.  An astrologer can look at
your natal chart and give you a pretty good idea to what degree you are likely to
be impacted by a particular Mercury retrograde and even the areas of your life
affected.
A good astrologer will even discuss with you ways you might take advantage of a
retrograde phase to make improvements in your life.
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 13
For example, suppose you worked in real estate and you went to your astrologer
and he or she told you that Mercury was going to be retrograding through your 2nd
House.  Because the 2nd House is associated with finances, the astrologer would
probably tell you that closings scheduled during the retrograde period would more
than likely be delayed.
Likewise the astrologer might suggest that you have a back-up plan in terms of
other options in case the current deal fell through.  In addition, the astrologer
would encourage you to review your own finances and spend some time
reorganizing your financial or business files.
A review of you own money situation could result in new money making ideas,
ideas you could implement on the other side of this retrograde after Mercury goes
Direct.  A retrograde Mercury phase is often a good time to do some homework,
gathering more information to help you figure out a better plan.
You could then focus your efforts and attention productively during this retrograde
phase, rather than be caught off-guard or frustrated by a delayed real estate
closing.  Even if the bank were to turn down the buyer’s loan application, you
would be ready with your back-up plan and contact other buyers on your list.
Most astrologers advise against signing an important contract during
a retrograde Mercury, and this is a good rule to follow – though I
have seen exceptions in cases where the position of Mercury was
actually more advantageous for both parties involved.
Buying a computer, a car or a cell phone during a Retrograde Mercury doesn’t
guarantee trouble, but it does increase the likelihood of something going amiss.
Often it’s minor, like “Oh, I love my new car, though I had to take it back this
morning because the rear view mirror was loose.”  No big, deal, right?  Just a little
glitch; such glitches are the ordinary stuff of life.  The same is true of people
changing their mind in the middle of negotiations or deciding not to buy something.
This is just the ebb and flow of decision-making, based on available information
and the capacity to process it – all Mercury’s domain.  More worrisome is the
effect of Mercury on cognitive judgment, like someone changing their mind in the
middle of an intersection and deciding that now they want to turn the other way!
You’ll notice this a bit more during a retrograde.
www.nodoor.com  2016 Core Course Level 5 by David Railey - 14
9. MOON transits move very fast!  The Moon travels between 11 and 15 zodiacal degrees
every 24 hours, which because of the variances in the lunar orbit actually averages a little over
12 degrees per day.  If we allow a standard orb of 3 degrees applying and 1 degree separating
for all major transiting aspects the Moon makes, then the Lunar transits are in effect for
approximately 8 hours – 6 hours applying and 2 hours separating.   As we saw in our first
example on page 3, the Moon can act as a fast moving trigger of long term trends.
To your right is a box from an Ephemeris showing the
Lunar phenomena for 2 months.  On the 2nd of the first
month the Moon is in its Last Quarter phase at 11 Libra,
followed by a New Moon on the 9th at 18 Capricorn 32,
which is followed by a First Quarter Moon Phase at 25
Aries on the 16th, and then a Full Moon at 3 Leo 59 on the 24th, etc.
You should keep up with these Lunar Phases and Eclipses.  The Full
Moon and the New Moon will be Eclipsed during two different periods
every year when the Sun and Moon are near the Lunar Nodes.  For an
eclipse to occur they must be within 19 degrees of the Lunar Nodes, for
a total lunar or solar eclipse the Sun and Moon must be within 9
degrees of the Lunar Nodes.  Solar Eclipses occur during a New Moon
and Lunar Eclipses occur during a Full Moon.  We will study Eclipses in more detail later on in Level 5.
When Eclipses occur they show up in the Lunar Phenomena box with a T for
Total Eclipse, a P for Partial Eclipse, and an A for annular Eclipse – meaning the
outer rim is visible.
To your right is a section of an Ephemeris that shows two
columns for the Moon each day.  The column on the left is for
00:00 ET, or Ephemeris Time, which for all practical purposes is
like GMT.  The column on the right says “12 hour,” which means
12:00 ET or GMT.  This is very useful for those of you living in
Beijing, China, because 00:00 ET is 8:00 Beijing Time, and 12:00 ET is 20:00
Beijing Time.  So you can always look in your Ephemeris and spot the Moon for
8:00 in the morning and for 20:00 in the evening.  For example the Moon on the
first day of the month on this Ephemeris page at 8:00 Beijing Time was 4 Cancer
59, and by 20:00 the Moon was at 10 Cancer 56.  This makes it easy to keep up
with the degrees of the Moon and helps with recognizing the rapidly moving
transits of the Moon.
Try this exercise:  Suppose you were born with the Moon at 8
degrees of Virgo and transiting Mars is Rx at 8 Sagittarius squaring
your Moon.  Which 3 days and times might be more challenging
for you emotionally?