2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 1 / 13
2016  Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27
Preparing for a client and Chart Analysisdoor.com
© www.nodoor.com
Before a new client comes to you for their consultation have you:
 Asked how they heard about you?
 Explained to them what to expect?
 Received their questions in advance?
 Inquired re: accuracy of birth time?
 Asked if they know some astrology?
CLIENT EXPECTATIONS
Initially finding out how a new client was referred to you is important.  If the
client has been referred to you by an existing client then they are more likely to
have some idea of how you work and what to expect.  Even so, it is still best to
explain to them more about what you do and what to expect.  For new clients
that have come to you through internet or WeChat listings and the like, it is
usually necessary to let them know that you are NOT a “fortune teller.”
Most people unfamiliar with modern western astrology still
imagine that your job is to predict their future.  You need to
let them know that, while you will discuss trends with them,
you will not be predicting the “events” of their future.  If this
is what they want you should refer them to a fortune teller
of good reputation.  Here are key points to make to clients:
 “I will work with you as an astrologer to help you find solutions.”
 “We will work together to see what we can find out.”
 “Astrology provides a frame of reference but the answers are in you.”
 “I use astrology to help us discover what is true about you and your life.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 2 / 13
The quote in the square above is a section of the City of Atlanta Ordinance regarding astrology, established in 1970 and amended in 1974.
Think about the dialogue in the cartoon above.  Consider how this
applies to many questions a client might have, such as “I want to
know if I will ever be married?”  “I want to know if I will be
successful in my career?”  “I want to know if my child will be
successful?”
 “Let’s find out what you believe and feel about relationships and marriage.
For starters, what kind of relationship did your parents have?  (You notice
your client was born with the Moon square Mars) Did they quarrel much?”
 “What kind of success have you experienced in your life already?  Is your
current career fulfilling?  (You notice that transiting Saturn is about to cross
their IC.)  Have you been thinking a more lately about changing careers?”
 “Let’s talk about the different ways your child might experience success.
(You notice their daughter has the N. Node in Pisces and Neptune conjunct
the Sun in Aquarius opposite Saturn in Leo.)  Is she hard on herself about
making mistakes?  Is she sometimes frustrated in her attempts to get her
father’s approval and respect?”
How would you rephrase the client’s questions?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 3 / 13
Here are some promotional examples of ways to let
people know what the general benefits of astrology
can be.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 4 / 13
Okay, but how do we compete with astrologers that
claim to be so totally accurate!
My predictions are 95%
accurate!ASTROLOGER
“Uncle Wu Xing”
QQ 9898989898
Beijing
www.accuratepredictions.com
Don’t compete with them.  Focus on building relationships
with your clients.  After 10 years you will have all of the
clients you could want.
Yes!  Consistently accurate predictions are not possible.
Clients drift away as some predictions come true yet many
do not.  Such astrologers are always on the lookout for
“new” clients.
Predicting events can harm people.  They may feel like a
victim of the planets, with even less control over their life.
Instead, working with a person to create a more fulfilling
future empowers them.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 5 / 13
Your clients will soon see the value of the work you do
with them, as “they” discover solutions within
themselves.  Seeing that they can improve their life
opens them to their own potential for growth.
They will share their experiences with their friends, and
the positive changes they are making in their own life
provides evidence to their friends regarding the benefits of
astrology.
However, don’t expect your astrology to be a “cure all”
for your clients.  As valuable as the consultation can be,
your client may need to see other counselors or
therapists.
Yes, in fact your client’s issues may be well beyond your
expertise as an astrologer, so it’s important to have a
referral list of competent professionals to refer your
clients to.
As an astrologer “you” are part of the therapeutic
community, and you can provide useful support for
clients that avail themselves of both traditional and
alternative healing methodologies.
I’d like to say more about the value of the “consultation”
itself.  If someone just wants predictions they could send
their questions by WeChat and the astrologer could text
answers.  There’s no need for a consultation.  However, the
consultation is really an experience for the client.  Things
can happen in a consultation that have a healing impact on the client.
A consultation is really a deeply personal and sacred interaction.  A
supportive relationship is being created in this consultation.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 6 / 13
BIRTH TIME & RECTIFICATION ISSUES
Quite often your clients birth time
will be uncertain.  If they are
reasonably sure their birth time is
within 30 minutes of accuracy then
you may be able to adjust their birth
time yourself by asking them some
simple questions relative to the
angles of their chart.
For example, if their MC is 8 degrees from Saturn in the
10th House ask, “Did something impact your status in
school when you were around eight?”  If they say, “No,
but when I was ten I had a really tough teacher that was
difficult to please,” then you might adjust their birth time
8 minutes earlier, to put their MC 10 degrees away from Saturn instead
of 8 degrees.  You then need to test this new MC.
Right.  You need to reality test this new MC, and the new
ASC to see if it remains consistent with the general
associations you’d expect.  You’re working here with the
“wisdom of hindsight” – and you can learn more about
your client too!
It’s quite common for astrologers to adjust their clients birth time after
they get to know them better, especially when the birth time
uncertainty is 30 minutes or less.
However, when the birth time is more than 30 minutes in doubt,
especially when an hour or greater either way, your clients chart will
need to be rectified.   If you feel you are not qualified to do this or that
you don’t really like to do rectification, then you need to have someone
who is a respected qualified rectification expert to refer your client to.
If you chose to rectify your clients chart you need to let your client
know that rectification is a separate feefrom the fee for their session.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 7 / 13
Chart Analysis – Preparing the chart for your client…
You will typically calculate some of the following charts:
 Natal Chart
 Tri-wheel: Transits and Secondary Progressions
 Bi-wheel: Solar Arc
 Solar Return Chart – (optional, I use as a back-up)
 Charts of others, spouse, children, family members
CLIENTQUESTIONS:  (New Client, from internet listing.)
Birth time is accurate within 10 to 15 minutes she says.
1. My career seems to constantly interfere with my
relationship life?  I have no time to develop a serious
relationship.
2. I had an affair with a man that used to work for my
company.  He had another girlfriend at the time, and
then he moved to a different company and married the
girlfriend.  I still think about him, why?
3. I make good money in my current position, but I keep
thinking about finding a job with less pressure.  Or, is
there another career for me?  I think I am too old to
make such a big career change.
4. Is there a good time to apply for a new position in
another company?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 8 / 13
 What questions would you prepare to ask your
client before they arrive?
 Are there any questions you would prepare to
check her birth time?
 You can also ask these short rectification
questions by email or WeChat.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 9 / 13
Tri-wheel with Transits and progressions:
 Note: The Transits are for the date and time of her
consultation with you.  October 4 at 8:00 PM
 What questions will you prepare to ask her based
upon her transits and progressions?
 How might your questions help her answer the
questions she has listed for you?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 10 / 13
Bi-wheel Solar Arc October 4 2016
 What Solar Arc trends do you see?
 What questions will you prepare to ask her based
upon the Solar Arc aspects you’ve found?
 How might your questions help your client to
answer the questions she has listed for you?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 11 / 13
Solar Return for 2016
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 12 / 13
Solar Return Chart 2017
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 27 13 / 13
Basic Counseling Skills to Remember
The following counseling methodologies are important to
remember and utilize in yourTest Consultations!  When we listen
to the recording of your test consultation we will be listening to
see how well you listen and respond to your client.
 Active Listening
 Asking open ended questions
 Identification of emotion
 Reflect emotion
 Establish an empathic rapport
 Encourage expression of feelings
 Lead the client to explore feelings
 Recognizing patterns
 Make interpretation relevant and appropriate
 Confrontation: Use non-judgmental way to show
irrational belief system or some paradox the client
doesn’t realize
 Interpretation, connecting the past with the
present and discussing potential future
developments
 Discussing possible options and strategies