2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 6   1 / 3
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five
Lesson 6 Transit demonstration
© www.nodoor.com
Student: Huang Qiuxia
Notes:
Description of my life before the Saturn Return:
I’m 29 years old, going through my Saturn Return. 3 years before my Saturn Return, my
situation totally manifested the characteristics of the South Node in Libra in the 7th house. I
worked in the media industry. Every day, I could only follow my leader’s orders. I couldn’t
relieve myself from my all day long resentment. During one interview, I got in touch with
astrology. I began to learn astrology, and my life gradually changed. I changed my job, but the
new boss was just like the old one, who tried to oppress and control me. However, my own
situation is completely different. I learn to reflect on my own problems and seek solutions, so
I’ve got much less complaints. Regarding to relationships, I used to think that no one would love
me. Now, I become more confident, and some guys will take the initiative to approach me.
During the year of Saturn Return, while there are some problems, I’ve got plenty sense of
freedom.
Natal Chart
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 6   2 / 3
Transits for L5 Lesson 6 Webinar May 3 2016 at 8 pm Beijing Time
Transit Notes:
1.
Pluto is not making any transiting aspects during this period other than
transiting H11.  Since going into in Capricorn in 2008, Pluto would’ve trined
her H6 Virgo planets while still in her 10th house, suggesting she might have
developed some resilience and survival skills in dealing with workplace
challenges.  However, Saturn transiting in early Virgo in 2007 and 2008
conjuncting her Virgo planets would’ve coincided with the beginning of this
Pluto transit – suggesting some health related and or job related patterns
were established during these years – for better or for worse.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 6   3 / 3
2.
Neptune has been opposing her Virgo planets since it went into Pisces in
2011 and 2012.  This has to be considered, since Neptune is now applying
to a conjunction to her Asc, and Square her Saturn during her Saturn
return.  Saturn will eventually oppose her Moon as well, so Neptune is a
significant factor during this period of her life.  This might have showed
creative development in the positive sense and vulnerability in terms of
health or job conditions.
3.
Uranus in Aries will quincunx her H7 Virgo Moon this year, and is transiting
her 2nd house.  This is an “adjustment” trend, suggesting a new adjustment
is underway emotionally in regards to relationships and self-worth, perhaps
relating in some way to new influences regarding enterprises and ways of
making money or evaluating the worth of something, i.e. self-worth,
worthiness, or the value of others experienced in a new way.  This is
important when you consider that her Moon and Uranus were closely
square at birth.
4.
She is having her first Saturn return and Saturn will eventually cross the MC
into H10, and conjunct her Uranus and square her H7 Virgo Moon 3 times
in 2017.  This suggests she may begin to take a more serious and perhaps
realistic look at what “she needs in a partner.”  Serious decisions regarding
partnership are likely in 2017.
5.
Mars is Rx now, going Rx at 8 degrees Sagittarius in April, square her
Mercury, and it will square all of her H6 Virgo planets in May, and again in
August after Mars is Direct.  Such a transit suggests a very busy period of
activity workwise, a hectic schedule that might highlight any work related
issues or health issues.  Unresolved conflicts with co-workers, or with boss,
might flare-up.  Such conflicts offer a chance to resolve or correct
problems in these areas.