2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  1 / 28
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five Lesson 15
Returns Charts – Solar & Lunar
© www.nodoor.com
All return charts are based upon the exact moment that the Sun, Moon or planet
returns to where it was at the time of birth.  Unlike secondary progressions,
return charts are calculated for the location the person is at on the day of their
“return”, rather than for the city of their birth – unless of course they are in their
birth city at the “return” moment.  Some astrologers use the birth place
regardless, though most do not.
It is also possible to calculate return charts for the planets.  However, the most
common return charts are Solar and Lunar Returns. Solar Returns are charts
calculated for the moment the Sun returns to its exact birth position, by degree,
minute and second.
Solar Return Charts – A chart for the exact time the Sun returns to its birth position.
Most astrology software programs will calculate a Solar Return chart for you,
but you can also calculate the time that the Sun returns to its exact natal
position using your Ephemeris, and then calculate a chart based upon this new
time and place.  The Sun will return at a different time each year, and not
always on the same day you were born!
Sometimes the Sun will return on the day before your birthday and sometimes
on the day after.  This is because the western calendar used in most of the
world differs from our zodiac calendar, and why zodiac signs sometimes begin
on different dates. To calculate a Solar Return chart by hand you’ll need the
exact position of the natal Sun in degrees, minutes, and seconds of zodiacal
longitude.
Your Ephemeris lists the seconds for the Sun, so this is easy enough to do.
Likewise, most Ephemerides will list the seconds for the Sun and Moon and
decimals for the planets.  Kepler Software also provides a list that includes the
exact position of the Sun, as in the case we will study tonight for a male born
May 30, 1922 at 7:00 P.M. in Porterdale, Georgia, USA.
Sun is 8 degrees Gemini 45 minutes and 21 seconds.
Notice that Kepler Software also lists the seconds of the
Moon and planets, which allows for return charts to be
hand calculated for the Moon and for the planets too,
though the software does this instantly.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  2 / 28
Neither Level Five nor ISAR Exam require hand calculation.
HAND CALCULATION:
To calculate a solar return chart by hand simply find the 24 hour interval for
the year in question.  Then convert the difference between the natal Sun and
the nearest midnight Sun.  Convert this difference into time.  This will give you
the exact time of a Solar Return.  Then adjust this time for the time zone of the
place and set up a chart for this new month, day, year time and place.
The actual date of your Solar Return may be the day before your birthday,
the day of your birthday, or the day after.  Using your Ephemeris we can
easily calculate the time of a Solar Return for the Gemini male listed above;
this is the first example we will study.  Looking at your Ephemeris for May
1951, you see that the Sun listed at midnight on May 31 is 8⁰Gemini 45’ 02” –
just 19” less than the natal Sun.  The natal Sun will fall between May 31, 1951
at midnight UT and June 1, 1951 at midnight UT.
In this 24 hour interval the Sun moves 57 ‘and 31” or 57.516666.’ We must
also convert the 19” into a minute decimal, which is .316666.  To come up
with right multiplier we divide: .316666 ÷ 57.516666 = .0055056.
Then multiply .0055056 X 24 hours, which = .1321344 X 60’ = 7.928064’
(.928064 X 60” = 55.68” or 57’), so the UT is 00:07:57.  A UT of 00:07:57 must
be converted to Zone 5 West for Atlanta, Georgia – the time zone for the
place of the return.
UT is 5 hours ahead of Zone 5 West, so the Standard Time of the Solar Return
would be 7:07:57 PM on May 30, 1951.  Let’s see if our calculations agree
with the Kepler Software for this Solar Return Chart.  Our hand calculation
has come within 3 seconds of clock time to being exact!  Notice the time
listed below is for 07:07:54 PM on May 30, 1951.  A difference of 3 seconds
of clock time would not alter this chart at all.
The Solar Return chart below is the chart of my father, Walter Railey, for a
year that would prove to be a pivotal year in the story of his life.  A Solar
Return chart “symbolizes” the issues and probable circumstances that are
likely to be emphasized between one Solar Return and the next.  Thus the
Solar Return above symbolizes the period from May 30, 1951 to May 30,
1952.  First, a Solar Return chart should be considered “by itself” as a picture
of what is likely to be significant in the year in between birthdates.
N
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  3 / 28
Second, a Solar Return chart should be compared to the natal chart as well.
However, it is important to initially identify the main features of a Solar Return
before comparing it to the natal chart.
A Solar Return chart can help to “clarify issues” and possible circumstances that
are likely to arise during the year in question, and may underscore the themes
suggested by transits and progressions.  Many times a Solar Return chart allows
the astrologer to better grasp what is really at stake in a person’s life; such
insight enables the astrologer to offer a better forecast interpretation.
SOLAR RETURN for May 30, 1951
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  4 / 28
THE METHOD OF INTERPRETING A SOLAR RETURN:
The number one priority for a Solar Return chart is the house position of the
SUN, and how the SUN is aspected!  Then list the closest to exact aspects,
looking for the “unique” qualities that stand out during the moment of this
Solar Return.  In the Solar Return chart for Walter Railey for 1951 the SUN is
in the 7th house conjunct Mars, placing significant emphasis upon his
partnership life.
Mars is important because it is conjunct the Sun, and Mars is also conjunct
the DSC.  Mars means “action” and amplifies what is likely to be an eventful
year relationship wise and eventful in terms of Walter’s partner’s life too. In
the negative sense Mar’s position implies a potentially frictional or strife filled
year, though in the positive sense this might mean his partner embarking on
a new endeavor – or new developments in his relationship life.
The Sun is sextile Jupiter, which implies opportunities, and the Sun makes a
waning semi-sextile to Uranus – suggesting some unexpected developments
from its 8th house position, perhaps an indicator of unexpected or sudden
access to unusual resources of some kind or a response to confrontation or
unanticipated “spiritual” crisis.  Remember, the waning semi-sextile can have
a spiritual or Pisces like quality to it.
The Sun is also widely square the MC and IC, implying that relationship factors
could impact home and career as well.  Among the close aspects in Walter’s
Solar Return chart, the Moon’s opposition to Neptune is at the top of the list.
Neptune always implies sensitive situations and issues.  Sometimes an aspect
like this can mean illness within family, especially important females in one’s
life, i.e. mother or wife or even daughter.
Overwhelming circumstances can temporarily flood one’s life and lead to
disillusionment as well.  Of course the nature of an “opposition” tends to play
out in relationships (remember oppositions correspond to Libra), and often
with significant tensions.  The Moon also trines Pluto, adding intensity but
suggests resiliency or resourcefulness in dealing with crisis.
The Lunar Nodes are very close to the Meridian, with the South Node
conjunct the MC and the North Node conjunct the IC.  This angular nodal
indicator implies significantly new developments in terms of family with the
North Node conjunct the IC and repercussions that would likely impact his
career or professional status as well with the “reaction” at the South Node on
the MC.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  5 / 28
Pisces is the sign of the IC and the North Node, which resonates with
Neptune and underscores the importance of the Moon Neptune opposition.
Mercury is trine the MC and the South Node from the 6th House and is the
associate planet of Virgo, implying that career or job situations were likely to
develop in a “supportive” response to any new family changes.
Sometimes this can mean that a job may be more easily obtained and can
help to improve or better secure circumstances.  Remember, the South Node
is about security, i.e. seeking familiar ways to secure one’s life.
Considering these Solar Return indicators what kind of questions would you
be prepared to ask your client?  Talking with Walter Railey in 1951 you would
learn that he had been married for 6 years, with two children, and had nearly
completed his college degree in architecture by attending night school at
Georgia Tech over the last 5 years while working as a draftsman for an
architectural firm.  His wife is considering undergoing a new surgical
procedure for epilepsy, a disorder she has had since age twelve.
NATAL CHART of WALTER RAILEY
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  6 / 28
COMPARING the SOLAR RETURN to the NATAL CHART:
In comparing his Solar Return to his natal chart one is immediately struck by
how similar they are!  It is rare for the angles of a Solar Return to be this
close to the angles of a natal chart.  The Solar Return SUN may fall in the
same house as in the natal chart on average about 5 times in the course of a
lifetime, but only rarely are the angles this close!  Whenever a Solar Return
chart repeats the natal Sun’s house position this is significant, but even more
so when the angles of the chart are repeated so closely!
Remember, the natal chart is always the most important chart, so when the
stamp of the natal chart is more closely duplicated by the Solar Return there is
going to be a greater resonance with the basic message of the natal chart.
Such a Solar Return can mark a pivotal year in a person’s life. When comparing
the Solar Return to the natal chart one can also readily spot the major transits
that are in effect.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  7 / 28
Such a comparison also helps in better understanding the Solar Return and
allows for a  “reinterpretation” of the transit as well.  For example, consider
the position of Uranus in the Solar Return.  In the Solar Return Uranus is in
the 8th house and is semi-sextile the Sun and square Jupiter, but otherwise
not significantly aspected.  However, upon comparison with the Natal Chart
we see that Uranus is conjunct natal Venus and Pluto, square the natal
Lunar Nodes, and square natal Jupiter.
This makes the position of Uranus obviously more significant in the Solar
Return, since it is a major outer planet transit at this time.  In the natal
chart, Uranus is in Pisces conjunct the IC, conjunct the North Node in
Walter’s Solar Return.  Therefore the “Uranian” influence is accentuated in
his forecast, implying radical changes underway that could alter the status
quo of his relationship life.  The position of the Sun in the Solar Return
already tells us that his relationship life and or partner’s life is “emphasized”
as a theme during this year of his life.
How would you counsel Walter regarding his forecast?
What developed between May 30, 1951 and May 30, 1952?
In 1951 Walter’s wife Agnes read about a
leading neurosurgeon in Atlanta that had
reported success in arresting epilepsy through
“temporal lobe” brain surgery, depending
upon the type of epilepsy diagnosed.
Agnes had not been able to drive a car due to
the fact that epileptic seizures made driving
too dangerous.  Though under medication to
control her seizures, she still had spells of
unconsciousness and feared she would
endanger her children.  She would later add, “I
just wanted a normal life.  I wanted to be able
to drive a car and take my kids with me like all
the other moms.”
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  8 / 28
Here is the natal chart of Agnes Railey.  Notice the nearly exact opposition between Mercury
and Pluto with Mercury Rx in the 3rd house.  Epilepsy is a “neurological crisis” that manifests as
a seizure or convulsion, which is consistent with the associations of Mercury opposite Pluto.
The onset of Agnes’ epilepsy had occurred with puberty between ages 12 and 13, suggesting a
hormonal trigger.  With Scorpio Rising aspects to Pluto are accentuated, and the opposition
with Pluto is the closest aspect in her chart.
Following examination by the neurosurgeon in 1951, Agnes was told she was a candidate for
this new procedure.  She was told that there was “very little risk” with this operation, and that
the worst that might happen is that she would remain the same and still have epilepsy.  Walter
was not initially persuaded by his wife’s enthusiasm for the procedure.  Unconvinced regarding
the safety of the operation, he visited the neurosurgeon several times both with and without
his wife, until he reluctantly acquiesced to his wife’s desire to go ahead.  Agnes and her mother
were both optimistic regarding the procedure.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  9 / 28
In late January 1952 Agnes had her first surgical procedure, which failed to arrest her epilepsy,
but without any side effects.  In March 1952 Agnes had her second surgical procedure, which
proved to be disastrous.  In the days following her surgery she was barely able to speak, unable
to walk, and could only move her upper body in jerky uncoordinated motions – plus she still
had seizures.  The surgeon told Walter this was only temporary and that she would improve.
However, in the weeks that followed she did not improve and the surgeon abandoned her as a
patient and refused Walter’s request for help, telling him that his wife’s symptoms “had
nothing to do with the surgery.”
At first Agnes’ Solar Return is not as dramatic or obvious a picture of what transpired.
However, further investigation uncovers significant indicators.  By itself, the Solar Return shows
the closest aspect to the Sun as a conjunction to the DSC, i.e. opposite the ASC.  The DSC
conjunction does underscore an important year in terms of her married life, and the fact that
the Sun is “angular” increases its significance, but otherwise the Sun is only widely aspected by
a trine to Pluto and a sextile to Neptune – not strong indicators.  In terms of the angles, the
other close aspect is the Moon in Virgo conjunct the IC, implying significant domestic events,
such as the possibility of moving – which did occur, though not as had been planned.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  10 / 28
The most disruptive aspects of the Solar Return are Mars and Saturn in the 4th house squaring
Uranus in the 1st house, which suggests some unexpected developments regarding home and
family, but not on the magnitude of what was experienced, considering that all Solar Return
charts on December 19, 1951 would have this Mars Saturn square to Uranus – though in
different houses.
AGNES Solar Return in the outer wheel with Natal Chart in the middle
It is only when you compare this Solar Return chart to the natal chart that you begin to see the
significance of the year that follows. Notice where the Solar Return ASC of 28 degrees Gemini
falls in the natal chart, it falls in the 8th house but more importantly the “empty leg of the T-
Square” between the Sun, Moon and Mars in the natal chart!  In addition, notice where Uranus
falls when compared to the natal chart.  Uranus is conjunct natal Pluto and opposite natal
Mercury, a more obvious suggestion of “experimental” procedures that could impact the very
aspect in her natal chart that implies the neurological disorder she had!  Now the Solar Return
position of Mars and Saturn also takes on added significance, as Mars and Saturn are square the
natal Mercury Pluto opposition.  This is a good example of how important it is to compare the
Solar Return chart back to the natal chart.  By the time Agnes had her operations “Mars” was
no longer at 14 degrees of Libra, even though she was still getting Uranus and Saturn transiting
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  11 / 28
her Mercury Pluto opposition.  Hence, each Solar Return acts as a kind of “imprint,” in that it
occurs when the Sun realigns with our “birth moment.”  So it is that Mars in the Solar Return
takes on “added meaning” and significance.  A Solar Return allows you to further “frame the
context” of a transit as well.  In transiting Agnes’ natal Pluto Mercury opposition, Uranus was
conjunct Pluto – the ruler of her ASC, i.e. her “physical body.”  In her Solar return Uranus falls in
her 1st house, again the house of her “body” or anatomy.
However in looking at the Solar Return charts of the children of Agnes and Walter, David and
Kathy, for the same year, you will see more dramatic evidence of how Solar Return Charts can
underscore important trends. Likewise, when you have the charts of everyone in an immediate
family, you can look for themes that repeat and improve your ability to forecast and counsel
your clients.  Observe the Solar Return Charts that follow.  What themes do you see repeated?
Hint: look back at the Solar Return Chart of Walter Railey – what themes are repeated?
Natal Chart David Railey
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  12 / 28
Solar Return Chart for David Railey October 14, 1951
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  13 / 28
Natal Chart of Kathy Railey January 19, 1948
Solar Return Chart for Kathy Railey January 19, 1952
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  14 / 28
The Rest of the Story
Faced with the shock of invalid wife, Walter asked his parents to continue to allow his daughter
to live with them and an aunt of his wife’s to care for his son.  To pay for medical expenses
Walter was forced to sell the house they had just finished building and never got to live in.   He
hired a maid to care for his wife during the day while he worked and then cared for her himself
when home.
Then an opportunity arose in late April, when Walter heard of a “free” experimental program
underway in New York for brain and spinal injuries.  He immediately applied for this program
and Agnes was accepted.  They moved to New York City where Agnes would undergo nearly 2
years of physical therapy at Belleview Hospital, while Walter worked as a draftsman for an
architectural firm.  Agnes regained the ability to speak, though her voice was changed, and to
use her hands and arms, but was never able to walk again.
In early 1954 they would return to Atlanta and gradually reunite with their children, David first
later in 1954 and his sister Kathy in 1956.  A maid assisted the family upon their return to
Atlanta, and in 1957 Walter and Agnes won a landmark legal case against the neurosurgeon,
following 3 years of legal battles. This was the first neurosurgeon sued in the US, and during the
trial it was discovered that he had experimented on scores of other individuals – often poor or
low-income individuals, leading to death or permanent disability.
The case made local headlines between 1954 – 1957, partially for the high amount of money
awarded, and paved the way for others to pursue legal action against this neurosurgeon and
others.  [Prior to 1957 very few doctors were sued in the US, and in the Southern US doctors
were as highly trusted as ministers.]  The surgeon had his medical license temporarily revoked.
In the trial it was eventually uncovered that the neurosurgeon had not followed correct medical
and surgical standards or procedures during Agnes’ neurosurgery, and was found to be willfully
negligent.
Agnes would remain dependent upon a wheelchair for 53-years, but the courage she showed
on the witness stand facing a doctor that had cruelly lied to her and failed his oath to “do no
harm,”  would be tested for many years in an agonizing struggle.  Over time she would
transform and evolve through her tragedy to become a peaceful radiant woman that brought
joy to her grandkids and to everyone that knew her during the latter decades of her life.  She
became the “center piece” around which her family revolved, a family that would grow to
include 5 grandkids and eventually 7 great-grandkids.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  15 / 28
LUNAR RETURN CHARTS
© www.nodoor.com
Lunar Return charts are based upon the exact return of your natal
Moon by degree, minute and second of zodiacal longitude each month or
approximately every 28 days.  This chart is a quick reference forecasting
tool for the month in question, i.e. between the dates of the Lunar Return,
and is an excellent guide to typical lunar issues of emotional wellbeing,
security, family, household and domestic life.  The Lunar Return shows the
mood of the month and in addition to psychological issues may even
suggest circumstances.
This is the natal chart of Prince Charles.  The chart that follows is Prince Charles’ Lunar
Return Chart in effect when Princess Diana tragically died in a car crash on August 31, 1997.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  16 / 28
Even though Prince Charles and Princess Diana were divorced at the time, the emotional shock
of this event clearly shows in the following Lunar Return Chart.  You should take special notice
of the position of Mars and Uranus, especially in terms of how they aspect the Moon.  This is a
very dramatic example of how a Lunar Return Chart can refer to potential  emotional dynamics
and possible circumstances.  Remember we can only guess at the circumstances beforehand.
However, any astrologer viewing this Lunar Return Chart prior to August 31 would have
discussed family related concerns with Prince Charles, and asked questions about family plans
or upsetting issues that currently existed.  In addition to the Moon, Mars, Uranus T square, the
position of the Lunar Nodes on the angles, with the N. Node on the DSCN suggesting new
significant developments impacting partnership life.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  17 / 28
Natal chart of Johnny Depp
The Lunar Return that follows occurred just before his daughter Lily Rose was born in Paris on
May 27, 1999.  The pronounced Lunar Return placement on the ASC is another dramatic
example of an eventful month ahead.  This angular placement of the Moon underscores the
importance of significant family circumstances and emotional issues.  Note the Sun’s position
trine the Moon, and conjunct the IC, further emphasizing domestic events.  Likewise observe
the position of Uranus squaring the Sun, and the MC and IC axis.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  18 / 28
Lunar Return Johnny Depp for the month his daughter was born.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  19 / 28
Female
This is the natal chart of a long time client.  There are 2 Lunar Return Charts which follow.  The
first Lunar Return chart occurred just before her divorce was finalized.  The divorce had been a
long drawn out battle over property and money.  They have 3 kids as well, so there was a lot to
consider.  For reasons relating to her transits and progressions and the chart of her “future ex-
husband,” I had pushed her to go ahead and finalize the divorce.  This Lunar Return Chart also
shows some benefits to settling in regards to partner’s money, though this chart was not my
main reason for advising her to agree.  It was a chaotic time in her life; witness the square from
Uranus.  However, in December of 2008 she learned that her ex-husband had lost all of his
investments, as had his parents, in the Bernie Madoff scandal that erupted.  Having already
received her properties and financial settlements she was safe!  Had she waited much longer in
the divorce she would have received very little for herself and her children in the wake of her
ex-husbands financial disaster.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  20 / 28
The Moon’s 8th House position emphasizes partner’s money issues.  It’s
also true that this chart might have suggested intimacy issues as well – if
they hadn’t already been in a protracted divorce for over a year.  Note the
Moon’s trine to Mars, Mercury and Venus, as well as to Neptune – making
a grand trine.  These Libra planets support the transiting trine of Neptune
to the Moon.  Uranus is closely square the Moon – an ongoing transit that
year.  The Sun square Pluto implies underground developments that might
surface later, especially in regards to 2nd house issues – i.e. money!
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  21 / 28
Of course I think the Lunar Return Chart for December is also dramatic.  Look at
the Moon’s position, opposite Mars and the Sun, square Saturn and Uranus –
with Saturn in the 7th house of partners.  Do you see?  This Lunar Return is also
part of a Full Moon Phase!  Can you imagine how this December Lunar Return
Chart might have expressed itself if she had not previously settled the divorce in
late September?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  22 / 28
Female
This is the natal chart of a client whose daughter was born with a serious heart
disorder that threatened her health off and on, despite many attempts to treat
and correct the problem.  Nonetheless, her daughter had gone on to try and
live a normal life, and married and had 3 children without experiencing any
cardiac complications.  During her last 6 months her daughter told her
privately she had decided to divorce her husband, but she would die suddenly
of cardiac failure on May 23, 2010 at the age of 36 before pursuing a divorce.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  23 / 28
The Lunar Return chart above shows clearly a potential for shock and sadness
and possible loss for my client.  Note the close square from Uranus, with
Uranus conjunct the 8th house cusp, and of the close square from Saturn.
What else do you notice about this Lunar Return Chart?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  24 / 28
Male
This is the natal chart of a client I’ve known for the last twelve years.  The
Lunar Return Chart that follows shows a unique emphasis around the
Moon!  His Moon is applying close to a New Moon Phase and a Solar
Eclipse, plus Venus is also conjunct the Moon and Sun.  Note also Uranus
sextile the Moon, Jupiter and Neptune in the 4th house and Mars conjunct
the MC opposite the IC.  During this Lunar Return he would become a
father for the first time upon the birth of a son on January 27, 2010.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  25 / 28
How might Mars in Leo on the MC reflect his feelings during the
month of his son’s birth?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  26 / 28
Here is the natal chart for US President Barack Obama.  The Lunar Return chart that follows is
the one that occurred immediately following his election as President.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  27 / 28
The Moon is not strongly aspected in this Lunar Return Chart, but I noticed the
angular positions of Uranus and Saturn.  Looks like a possible change of career,
something radical and new!  Likewise it appears that his home and family life
would be going through some serious changes!  What else do you notice about
this Lunar Return, or in comparison with his natal chart?
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 15  28 / 28
Now look at the Lunar Return chart that David found for the month prior to his
lecture, during which time the election would occur!
What similarities do you notice between this chart and the Lunar Return that
will follow in November?