2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 18  1 / 5
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level Five
Lesson 18 Composite Chart Demonstration
© www.nodoor.com
Name: Linda
Birth time: 23:29, Sep.15, 1988
Birth place: Harbin, China
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 18  2 / 5
Linda’s EX-partner
Birth time: 15:56, July.6, 1988 （with Daylight Saving Time）
Birth place: Qiqihar, China
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 18  3 / 5
COMPOSITE CHART
Linda/Ex-partner
Relationship interactions:
First period:
In 2007, I entered the university. We were in the same class where we
both served as class cadres. He was the class leader, and I was the class
group secretary. Together we organized class activities every now and
then, and gradually became familiar with and grew feelings for each other.
In the middle of April 2008, we were officially together and spent the first
half year in passionate love.
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 18  4 / 5
Second period:
In October 2008, he failed a class called C programming language, and
didn't succeed in winning reelection as class leader, which gave him a
heavy blow. He then decided to drop out of school, go back to high
school to restudy for a year and retake the college entrance examination.
We were arguing all the time during November 2008.  I said that he
didn't consider my feelings and that I would break up with him if he
dropped out of school. Eventually, I gave in and he went back to Daqing
High School （in Heilongjiang province） to restudy in December 2008.
We started a long-distance relationship.
Third period:
From the end of 2008 to the summer of 2009, I visited him in Daqing
three times on weekends. In February 2009, I began to prepare for
postgraduate entrance examination, specializing in psychology, which
was different from my undergraduate major. He encouraged me to apply
for Beijing Normal University so that we could be together in Beijing. In
June 2009, he was admitted into Renmin University of China. He finally
achieved his dream and became a freshman two grades lower than me. I
took him as the model during the time I was preparing for my
postgraduate entrance examination, which did not get much support
from people around me, except my mother and him. My classmates
found it quite hard to understand why I chose to change my major into
such an unpopular one. But I couldn't care less about other people's
opinions, as long as I had his support and approval, I could stick with it.
Fourth period:
In January 2010, he visited me in Harbin and said he wouldn't come and
visit me again in summer. An astrologer I found on the Internet
interpreted our charts and said our relationship was doomed to break up,
and that our marriage would eventually fall apart even if we got married.
On March 21st, 2010, he called to break up with me. I had a breakdown
and was disillusioned. I felt insulted and my values were turned upside
2016 Nodoor Core Course Level 5 Lesson 18  5 / 5
down. The picture of the future was dimming in my mind. After his one-
sided breakup decision, I called him three times to try to give this
relationship a last shot. In May 2010, I heard that he cheated on me, and
saw pictures of him and his new girlfriend on a social network site. I called
him last time to confirm that, and we haven't contacted each other ever
since. I deleted all his social network accounts and changed my network
name from "baby little kitten" into "Pluto".
Fifth period:
Now I want to thank him. Firstly, this relationship has helped me
recognize my values and my path in the future. It has awakened my needs
of North Node in Pisces. Had it not been for him, I wouldn't have realized
what my soul really wants. Secondly, I begin to understand that if you are
not talented enough to pursue some big dream, then don't burn your
bridges behind you just for one person, for there will be nothing left for
you once that person is gone.
Questions I want to discuss with David:
1. Is it possible to see from one's birth chart how many marriages he or
she will have? In a comparison chart, what indicators/ kind of
configuration suggest(s) a high rate of marriage?
2. My Saturn will return at the end of this year. I've been quite worried
that something would happen. Will this "something" be concerning
the health of my family members and myself? What should I do to
deal with my Saturn return?