1
Nodoor  Rectification Workshop  Class 3
Testing Charts, using logic, transits, progressions and solar arc
© www.nodoor.com
6:00 AM Chart
Notes:
Nodes in 12th and 6th house fits him being a doctor, as the nodes in these houses
typically shows up for people working in the health care field.If his ASC moved back
to 13 – 14 degrees could fit sister born at age 3 – with his Solar Arc ASC and progressed
ASC conjunct Venus, this puts MC-IC at 7 degrees of Capricorn – Cancer and picks-
up transits of Jupiter and Uranus – but NOT in an expected way when he is 10 years
old with academic success.Unfortunately, if you move the chart back to where the
MC is 7 degrees Capricorn this slightly earlier time moves theMoon back into
VIRGO!!!  So, this chart is not worth examining any further in my opinion, unless you
move the time forward.   If we move the ASC forward to 17 Aries it conjuncts Venus
and this could explain some of the “feeling” references he makes about himself – but
I’m not sure he’s this “charming.”  Anyway, this gives him an MC of 11 Capricorn.  If
2
you check his Solar Arc MC for age 13 this is 24 Capricorn – trine his Uranus.  This is
interesting and could account for more of his rebellion then (it is contact!) but
doesn’t really fit being the “star” as a quarterback for the football team.  If we direct
his Solar Arc MC further to later events we find that his Solar Arc MC is opposite
Pluto between ages 20 and 22, and then conjunct Mars between ages 23 and 25 – this
is 1964 – 1966, not exactly the period he was in combat – which was 1967 – 1971.  Of
course if you move the natal MC to 16 Capricorn then his Mars – Pluto opposition is
triggered by the Solar Arc MC from 1966 – 1971 if you include applying and separating,
which encompasses his combat period perfectly.  However, this puts his natal ASC
around 26 degrees of Aries, putting his Sun in the 12th house.  This might add to his
medical career profile, but it does not fit anything else we know of?  His Solar Arc
Sun would cross the ASC at age 6, and Venus at age 9.  He was popular in elementary
school, but that was more ages 10, 11 and 12.  Perhaps we can test his Solar Arc for
when he got married.  Let’s see?  Here is his first marriage June 30, 1973.
We see Solar Arc Neptune still on the DSC, but separating – almost over.  We see
Solar Arc ASC sextile Mercury but that’s not really a marriage indicator.  We do see
Solar Arc MC sextile natal Venus and this can be “marriage indicator,” so there is one
clear hit here.  Solar Arc Venus is conjunct natal Jupiter, but that’s NOT an angle and
would be in effect regardless with any of these birth times.
Let’s also test this further and see if the transits and secondary progressions fit this
marriage time.  (Also keep in mind that a year later in June 1974 he would become a
father for the first time with the birth of his daughter on June 26.)  So far I’m not
seeing any indicators for parenthood by Solar Arc for the coming year…
3
Secondary progressions and transits for 1st Marriage June 30, 1973
Progressed Venus is only a degree or so past the inconjunct with the DSC, with
progressed Mars one degree past the trine – so a 1 degree adjustment could fix this!
The progressed ASC at 7 Gemini does not hit anything, though it is interesting to see
the progressed Moon at 12 degrees Sagittarius having crossed the Progressed DSC 5
months earlier (engaged? Decided to marry?)  However, this is not much evidence.
Transit wise, the most obvious transit is Uranus at 18 Libraopposite natal Venus but
this is not on an angle!  However, transiting Saturn is at 26 Gemini and trines the
DSC, so an appropriate angle is aspected and Saturn is the planet of formal
commitment – though not a transit that would “forecast” such an event.
In terms of transiting Pluto there is no aspect to an angle, but Pluto is conjunct the N.
Node and was recently conjunct the Moon.  The recent conjunction to the Moon
bothers me a little, because his wife is not pregnant yet, and if one looks back at Pluto
it has already made an exact conjunction to the Moon 3 times, in October 1971, April
1972, and August 1972.  Of course he moved in with his future wife in 1972, and he was
suffering from PTSD – so perhaps this is enough, but I don’t think so because Pluto
never returns to within orb of a conjunction in 1974!   I did note that transiting
Uranus made a station at 28 Libra in the summer of 1975 when he divorced his wife,
4
and this is within orb of a conjunction to his DSC and is an indicator of the potential
for divorce.  So, there remains some support for this chart.
However, let’s take a look at this next major relationship that led to marriage by
October 1985.  This Solar Arc is for New Year’s Eve December 31, 1984, almost 1985.
At this same time Dr. Jones received a higher rating with the VA and a Veterans
Service award in January 1985.  So there should be some trends to support this.
Solar Arc December 31, 1984 – meets Lisa his future wife (Married 10 months
later in October 1985)
There are NO angles to suggest either an important relationship or a career
advancement and honor.  Solar Arc Venus is trine the Moon and will begin to trine
his N. Node in 1985, which would happen anyway – and there is no angle.  The only
angle even remotely aspected is Solar Arc Pluto almost applying to a trine to the natal
MC, but this is not enough to indicate an honor and an advancement.  Also, if the
natal Moon is “not” 0 Libra but a later degree, then Venus would “not” be trine the
Moon – which is interesting to consider.  Neither the Solar Arc ASC or MC form any
aspects during this eventful time, but let’s check-out his transits and progressions
before we decide to turn our investigation towards a different chart.
5
Transits and Secondary Progressions for December 31, 1984
Immediately we see transiting Jupiter in his 10th house signifying a potential for
professional advancement and public honor.  In addition Progressed MC is beginning
to apply to a square to progressed Jupiter, adding another Jupiter “contact” with the
MC.  As promising as these indicators are, there is nothing to suggest a significant
romance and subsequent marriage is pending, except the Progressed ASC sextile
natal Venus, which will separate from orb within a few months.  This is an ASC
contact with Venus – which is a relationship or marriage aspect, but the progressed
ASC should be applying or closer to the actual aspect.  This means moving the time
back by 4 minutes, which would also change previous considerations.  For example,
this would move the progressed MC back to 27 Aquarius so that it would no longer be
aspecting progressed Jupiter – though we would still have transiting Jupiter in the 10th
house.  The natal ASC would now be 25 Aries, the DSC 25 Libra.  However, this would
put the Progressed ASC at 17 Gemini more exactly sextile natal Venus at  17 Aries.  So,
a new rectified time of 6:21 AM must be considered.  This new natal chart would have
14 Capricorn on the MC.  This means that Pluto would be closer to exactly trine his
MC when he was promoted, also at the age of 10 his Solar Arc MC and Progressed MC
would both trine natal Uranus 24 Taurus.  Though not exactly what one would expect,
this is still interesting and a case “could” be made for these angular aspects.
Nonetheless, we need to test this new rectified time further.  If it is correct it should
hold-up for other time frames as well.
6
Rectified Time of 6:21 AM
Marriage to Lisa on October 19, 1985 – Transits and Secondary Progressions
The transits show a stellium in the 7th house, which includes the Sun on the DSC and
Pluto squaring natal Mars.  Saturn is conjunct the 8th house cusp and quincunx the
ASC.   Uranus is applying to a trine to Venus, but aspects no angle – other than a
separating quincunx to the IC.    Transiting Venus is conjunct the natal part of
fortune.
The progressed Moon is conjunct natal Jupiter and progressed Saturn.  The
progressed ASC is separating from a sextile with natal Venus.
So, the transits suggest some potential for marriage, and the 7th house stellium is an
attention getter!  However, this relationship and marriage would proves to be of
lasting value and significance to Dr. Jones, and I remain unconvinced that this is the
right chart.
I still have doubts that his personality profile matches this chart.  Seems like a
“double Aries” would come across as “primarily” assertive, and even though Saturn is
in the first house and closely trine the MC, this is not the most ambitious
combination in terms of what it takes to become a doctor.   Let’s test this chart
further…
7
Solar Arc – Summer 1989 (after school June 10) daughter Jennifer visits for summer
[June 10 is not listed in Peter Jones’ profile, just summer 1989.  I emailed him and
asked him approximately when she came to stay and he wrote, “after school ended
the second Saturday in June 1989.”]
Solar Arc Moon is 2 degrees past a trine to the IC, and Solar Arc Uranus is 4 degrees
away from a conjunction to the IC – so neither of these fit the “angle” time frame.
The Solar Arc MC does quincunx the N. Node, but is this enough to indicate his
daughter moving in with Dr. Jones and his wife?  Even when he contacted her in
August 1981 the Solar Arc Moon would’ve been out of orb of a trine to the IC – just
past the 1 degree separating mark.
The Solar Arc does NOT support this important development in Peter Jones’ life.
Let’s see what the transits and progressions show…
8
Transits and Progressions for daughter’s summer stay, June 10, 1989
Other than Mars transiting the 4th house there is no indication of any disruptive
domestic or family related events in June or through the summer.  Saturn is moving
away from a conjunction with the MC and opposite the IC.  The progressed Moon at 3
Cancer is a long way from the IC and would not cross it for 10 to 11 more months.  It is
tempting to use the progressed Moon opposite transiting Uranus at 3 Capricorn as an
indicator, but you do NOT mix transits with secondary progressions – and even if you
could this would only last for another month.
So neither the Solar Arc or the transits and progressions support the actual
developments that occurred in Peter Jones’ life that summer of 1989 for the 6:21 AM
chart.
At this point I want to turn to a different rectified time chart.  So let’s look at the
chart for 12:00 PM.
9
12:00 PM Chart
This chart is promising because it adds a 10th house or “Capricorn” theme to his
nature that fits the level of ambition and accomplishment he has shown in his life.
Likewise it puts his Aries planets in the house of career, and he was in the Army for a
while – and he is a surgeon – which means cutting.  In addition his father was a state
trooper which again mixes Aries with a Capricorn theme, i.e. 10th house.  However,
his Mars Pluto opposition now falls in the 1st and 7th houses, which does not seem to
characterize his married life, though his first marriage did break up due to his PTS as
a result of combat.  In addition he does end up counseling veterans, which might fit
Mars in the 7th house.  Yet, another issue is the house placement of his Lunar Nodes.
The question is, “How does his life conform to the theme of the ‘messenger?”  He is
not a teacher, or professor.  Nonetheless, he offers a message of peace to veterans and
becomes a spokesperson for veterans groups.  Also he seems to question and discuss
more patient cases with his medical staff, which fits a 3rd house – 9th house theme.
Still, I am not sure?  So let’s test this chart with transits, progressions and solar arc.  I
want to start with a slightly modified time that fits the birth of his sister, putting the
IC at 7 Libra and the MC at 7 Aries.  This fits some events we already know of: the
birth of his sister when he was 3 years old with Solar Arc Moon crossing 7 degrees
Libra between age 3 and 4, academic success at age 10 with transiting Jupiter exactly
on his MC in late May 1951, and Solar Arc Mercury conjunct natal MC at the same
time in 1951.  This is a promising beginning, but let’s test our theory astrologically!
10
Chart for Rectified Time of 11:42 AM
Quarterback of football team Autumn 1954 – age 13 – (Football is played in the fall,
which is why I choose October.)
Immediately we see the Solar Arc MC conjunct the natal Sun, and now we also see
the Solar Arc ASC is applying to an opposition to Mars, having been conjunct Pluto in
to previous 2 years, consistent with the period from ages 11 through 14 in terms of
fighting/violence with his father.  Yes, Solar Arc Sun remains as an obvious indicator
in terms of being square the Mars Pluto opposition, but the Solar Arc ASC reinforces
this trend.
(Also notice that 2 years previously the Solar Arc MC was exactly conjunct natal
Venus  during a time he described as being “popular.”)
Let’s see what shows up in terms of transits and secondary progressions…
11
Transits and Progressions for Quarterback of the Football team, Oct 1 1954
The progressed Moon crosses the natal MC during the football season – Autumn 1954!
This is a hit, because the progressed Moon moves 1 degree a month and could only
have been within orb in September, October and November.  The progressed Moon
will remain in his 10th house for 42 months – or until April 1958 when he turns 17
years old.   In addition his progressed ASC is conjunct natal and progressed Pluto –
more emphasis on this Mars Pluto opposition.
Transiting Jupiter and Uranus are in his 1st house, during a “rebellious period,” Uranus
having crossed his 21 Cancer ASC in June 1954, and Retrograding back to within 3
degrees in March and April 1955.
We know that he would graduate from high school at age 18 in late May 1959, because
that is normal in the USA to graduate at 17 or 18.  Those born in the spring before late
May or early June will graduate at 18 and those born after will graduate at 17.
However, since “everyone” graduates around these ages this is not a good event to
measure with transits, progression and solar arc.
We do NOT know exactly when he joined the army to pay for his college and medical
school, since he does not give us the year or date?  He did graduated from medical
school in 1966.  He does not say what month, but usually this would be in June.
So let’s look at June 1966 for his transits and progressions…
12
Transits and secondary progressions for Graduating from Medical School
What significant transits and progressions do you see?
13
Solar Arc for Graduation from Medical School
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
14
Transits and secondary progressions for July 1967 Goes to Vietnam War
as a MASH Unit doctor/surgeon.
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
15
Solar Arc for going to Vietnam War in July 1967
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
Remember also that he met his “future first wife” Tina in 1968 on leave
from the war.
16
Transits and secondary progressions for return to the USA July 1971
What significant transits and progressions do you see?
Remember that during this period he would move in with his girlfriend
Tina in 1972, the woman that became his first wife.
17
Solar Arc for return to the USA from Vietnam July 1971
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
18
First Marriage June 30, 1973 Transits and secondary progressions
What significant transits and progressions do you see?
19
Solar Arc for First Marriage June 30, 1973
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
20
Birth of daughter Jennifer, June 26, 1974 11:35 a.m. Greenville, SC
Transits and secondary progressions
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
21
Solar Arc for Birth of daughter Jennifer, June 26, 1974
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
22
Natal chart of daughter Jennifer, June 26, 1974 11:35 a.m. Greenville, SC
What are the astrological connections between the daughter and father?
What does her natal chart suggest about her father?
What possible rectification clues do you find in her natal chart?
23
Transits and secondary progressions for Separation and divorce
spring/summer 1975
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
Remember, he sold his house and moved into an apartment in August
1975 – just the next month!
24
Solar Arc for separation and divorce spring/summer 1975
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
25
Transits and secondary progressions for move to Atlanta in 1981, bought a
house in July 1981
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
Remember, Peter had a short-lived relationship that began in 1981 when
he first consulted David Railey, that relationship ending in
August/September 1982 when she moved out.
26
Solar Arc for moving and buying house in July 1981
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
27
Transits and secondary progressions for New Year’s Eve Party for
December 31, 1984
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
Remember, the very next month in January 1985 Dr. Jones would receive
a higher rating professionally with the VA and a Veteran’s Service award.
28
Solar Arc for New Year’s Eve Party December 31, 1984
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
29
Transits and secondary progressions for marriage with Lisa
October 19, 1985 in Decatur, GA
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
30
Solar Arc for October 19, 1985 Marriage to Lisa
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?
31
Lisa’s Natal Chart
How does Lisa’s chart compare with Peter’s?
What significant connections do you see?  How does her chart help with
the rectification of Peter’s chart?
32
Transits and Progressions for daughter’s summer stay, June 10, 1989
What significant transits and secondary progressions do you see?
33
Solar Arc for daughter’s summer stay, June 10, 1989
What significant Solar Arc aspects do you see?