1 / 6
Ten Minute Rectification!
Class Six, Part 2
© www.nodoor.com
Part 1) Personality Profile
Aquarius Female, February 10, 1962 Castro Valley,
California, USA
Self
1.) How do you think you come across on the surface, i.e. first impression?
Too intense for most people, because I can see through nonsense.
2). What do people seem to comment on first in terms of your outer demeanor?
My eyes.  I’m not trying to make people nervous, but they say I do.
3). Circle the following most indicative of your usual facade or surface attitude?
a. Communicative
b. quiet
c. assertive
d. receptive
I can be all of these, but I am communicative mainly.
Others
4). Describe the type of people you tend to attract.
2 / 6
In romantic relationships I have attracted people that seem to require that I be
nurturing and strong for them.  So I have attracted weak people, or
dysfunctional people.
5). What do you like in others?
I like people I can depend on, but there have been very few I really can.
6). What do you need from your intimate partner?
Someone who can nurture me for a change. Someone who is smart that I can
lean on too.
7). What is important to you in a relationship?
Someone I can depend on and be really comfortable with, who is also smart and
clever enough for me to talk with about anything.
8). What do you dislike most about relationships you have had in thepast?
Disappointment and disillusionment, and financial drain… having to spend so
much money on them.
Home
9).  Briefly describe what your home life was like growing up?
Mom and Dad came from different worlds.  He was Sicilian and she was Irish.  I
read a lot.  Read to my Mom, who was sick a lot, but she was smart too.  I spent
a lot a time alone reading.
10.) How did you respond to the conditions of your home life growing up?
I escaped into books, fantasies… reading, etc.
11.) What kind of man was your father when you were growing up?
Father was a brilliant businessman.
12.) What was your father’s career?
Waste management company.
3 / 6
13.) What was your mother like when you were growing up?
She was beautiful.  Her family owned lots of land.  She became very ill when I
was 7 and was pretty much bedridden until I was 11 years old.
14.) What was your mother’s career.
She was a house wife.
15). Is home life more important to you than your professional life?
Both are important.  I’ve raised 2 kids, and still pay for one in college.  I have
had to work to make the kind of money and have the kind of life style I have.
16). What best describes your home life?
It’s changed a lot, especially since I moved over the last year.  I work from home
half the time; I like that, but I’ve always liked working from home – having an
office in my home.
17). Describe the kind of home environment you like best.
Both international, eclectic and private.  I like to be wired in, talk on Skype, on
the phone, on the internet, reading books, reading reports, writing down my
ideas and keeping up with national and global environmental trends.
Career
18). What Educational Degrees do you hold?
Master’s Degree in Engineering
19). What kinds of titles or positions have you held professionally?
Engineer, Engineer Project Manager, Environmental Engineer, Waste and Water
Management, CEO of my own Water Management Consulting Firm, also I’m a
published author “Creating A Home Sanctuary.”
4 / 6
20). What are or have been your professional aspirations and goals?
To create more effective and environmentally advanced ways of recycling and
conserving the use of water in communities, municipalities and counties.  I have
pioneered the implementation of advanced water management systems for
large towns, and counties in Washington State and in California.
21). Is public recognition important to you?
Yes and no.  Only if it gives me a platform that gives me more clout to make the
world a better place.
22). What kind of professional reputation do you have?
I don’t mean to sound conceited, but people know me as an innovator and as
capable, reliable, resourceful, tough, and brilliant.
23). Are there other careers you’d like to pursue?
Only to succeed more in my field is all, maybe write some more books…
5 / 6
6 / 6
Part 2) Event Profile:
(Married 3 times, exact dates for marriage number 2 and 3)
1. Birth of Son, December 23, 1987 at 1:30 p.m. in Kent, Washington, USA
2. Birth of Daughter, December 5, 1996 at 8:52 a.m. in Los Altos, California
3. Met 2nd husband autumn 1995, married February 2, 1996
4. Mom died December 3, 1998
5. Married husband # 3 on August 14, 2005 at 1:20 p.m. in Honolulu, HI, USA
6. Divorce from husband # 3 on December 1, 2008