1
COAC Module 8 Lesson 2: Advanced Forecasting Skills
© www.nodoor.com
Female
Whenever you are preparing for a forecast always review the natal chart.  This
will be automatic when it is a new client, but when your client becomes a
regular patron it is easy to overlook the basics of the natal chart story.  This is a
mistake!  You should always remind yourself “who” this person is, and what
their story is about.
For example, in the chart above the North Node is in Scorpio, as is Mars and Neptune
(though Neptune’s position is generational, i.e. 1957 – 1970).  What other Scorpio themes do
you see?  Are there any personal planets in aspect with Pluto?  What about the South Node in
Taurus?  Where is Venus?  How is Venus aspected?  Did you notice right away that Venus
was in the 2nd house – the natural house of Taurus?  Did you automatically recognize the
connection between the North Node in the 11th house and the Moon in Aquarius, and spot the
opposition with Uranus and the square between the Moon and Mars – with Mars in the 11th
house?  What about the 5th house theme?  The Sun is in Sagittarius in the 12th house.  What
themes are the most pronounced?  What planets are conjunct or in aspect to the angles?  You
should practice thinking this way when you first look at a natal chart and when you review a
natal chart prior to your forecast.  This should be the first step in your forecast preparation.
2
Let’s look at her transits first.  Start with Pluto and work your way in.  Pluto is square
with the MC and IC.  What does this imply? When will Neptune move far enough
into Pisces to square her Sun, and what does this mean? What about Neptune
transiting her Part of Fortune?  What aspects will Uranus make?  Will Uranus
conjuncther IC and oppose her MC?  Saturn is still in her 11th house.  When did it last
conjunct her North Node, and will it conjunct it again?  What does this mean?  Was
Saturn close enough to her natal Mars for a conjunction?  What about the fact that
she was born with Mars square Uranus, how might this Saturn transit affect her?
Will Saturn come back to square her Venus and conjunct her Jupiter.  Will Saturn
move far enough into Scorpio to square her Moon; if so when will this happen?  What
about the Eclipses in 2013?  Will the Eclipses in April and May aspect her chart in any
significant way?  What about the Eclipses in October and November; will this aspect
anything by conjunction or opposition?  What about the transiting Lunar Nodes?
Next, look at Jupiter.  Jupiter will finish up in Gemini and then go into Cancer in late
June; what does this mean for her?  What houses will Jupiter transit?  Notice Jupiter’s
station in the autumn of this year at 20 degrees of Cancer; what does that aspect in
her natal chart?  What does this mean?
Next look at her Secondary Progressions staring with the angles; let’s list the aspects
within one degree.  Her Progressed MC and ASC are not aspecting anything over the
next year; however Progressed Mars has just crossed her natal ASC and remains in
orb of a conjunction for the rest of the year.  Progressed Venus is “slowly”
retrograding back and making a trine to her natal MC and opposing her natal Uranus,
while squaring her natal Mars at the same time.  The progressed Sun is quincunx
natal and progressed Pluto; meanwhile the progressed Moon trines Jupiter briefly for
3
another month as it enter her 3rd house.  What other aspects will the progressed
Moon make over the next 12 months as it moves through her 3d house?
Now, repeat the same list for her Solar Arc Directions, starting with the angles.  The
Solar Arc MC is not aspecting anything, while the Solar Arc ASC is separating from a
conjunction to the natal Moon that has been in effect already over the last year and a
half.  The Solar Arc Moon is conjunct the natal IC and is separating, but in effect for
another 9 months or so.  Solar Arc Saturn is applying to a close trine with the natal
MC and likewise square natal Mars and opposite natal Uranus. [Think about what
transiting Saturn is also doing!]  Solar Arc Jupiter is applying to a conjunction to the
natal ASC which will be in effect for the next year and 10 months approximately.
Consider what these Solar Arc trends might suggest, both in terms of issues and
possible circumstances.  Notice that there are 2 Lunar aspects of significance with the
angles, and that both aspects are separating.  Could this imply some important family
development?  How would you balance your forecast between the Saturn influence
and the Jupiter influence?  How would you coordinate these Solar Arc trends with her
progressions and transits?  What themes do you see?  How would you advise this
woman if she were your client coming in to see you today?