COAC MODULE 5 Lesson 2
LUNAR RETURN CHARTS
© www.nodoor.com
Lunar Return charts are based upon the exact return of your natal Moon
by degree, minute and second of zodiacal longitude each month, or
approximately every 28 days.  This chart is a quick reference forecasting
tool for the month in question, i.e. between the dates of the Lunar Return,
and is an excellent guide to typical lunar issues of emotional well being,
security, family, household and domestic life.  The Lunar Return shows
the mood of the month and in addition to psychological issues may even
suggest circumstances.
This is the natal chart of Prince Charles.  The chart that follows is Prince Charles’ Lunar
Return Chart in effect when Princess Diana tragically died in a car crash on August 31, 1997.
Even though Prince Charles and Princess Diana were divorced at the time, the emotional
shock of this event clearly shows in the following Lunar Return Chart.  You should take
special notice of the position of Mars and Uranus, especially in terms of how they aspect the
Moon.  This is a very dramatic example of how a Lunar Return Chart can refer to potential
emotional dynamics and possible circumstances.Remember we can only guess at the
circumstances beforehand.However, any astrologer viewing this Lunar Return Chart prior to
August 31 would have discussed family related concerns with Prince Charles, and asked
questions about family plans or upsetting issues that currently existed.
In addition to the Moon, Mars, Uranus T square, the position of the Lunar Nodes on the
angles, with the N. Node on the DSCN suggesting new significant developments impacting
partnership life.
Here is the natal chart of Johnny Depp.  The Lunar Return that follows occurred just before his
daughter Lily Rose was born in Paris on May 27, 1999.  The pronounced Lunar Return placement
on the ASC is another dramatic example of an eventful month ahead.  This angular placement of the
Moon underscores the importance of significant family circumstances and emotional issues.  Note
the Sun’s position trinethe Moon, and conjunct the IC, further emphasizing domestic events.
Likewise observe the position of Uranus squaring the Sun, and the MC and IC axis.
Female
This is the natal chart of a long time client.  There are 2 Lunar Return Charts which follow.  The
first Lunar Return chart occurred just before her divorce was finalized.  The divorce had been a long
drawn out battle over property and money.  They have 3 kids as well, so there was a lot to consider.
For reasons relating to her transits and progressions and the chart of her “future ex-husband,” I had
pushed her to go ahead and finalize the divorce.  This Lunar Return Chart also shows some benefits
to settling in regards to partner’s money, though this chart was not my main reason for advising her
to agree.  It was a chaotic time in her life; witness the square from Uranus.  However, in December
of 2008 she learned that her ex-husband had lost all of his investments, as had his parents, in the
Bernie Madoff scandal that erupted.  Having already received her properties and financial
settlements she was safe!  Had she waited much longer in the divorce she would have received very
little for herself and her children in the wake of her ex-husbands financial disaster.
The Moon’s 8th House position emphasizes partner’s money issues.  It’s
also true that this chart might have suggested intimacy issues as well – if
they hadn’t already been in a protracted divorce for over a year.  Note the
Moon’s trine to Mars, Mercury and Venus, as well as to Neptune –
making a grand trine.These Libra planets support the transiting trine of
Neptune to the Moon.  Uranus is closely square the Moon –an ongoing
transit that year.  The Sun square Pluto implies underground
developments that might surface later, especially in regards to 2nd house
issues – i.e. money!
Of course I think the Lunar Return Chart for December is also dramatic.
Look at the Moon’s position, opposite Mars and the Sun, square Saturn and
Uranus – with Saturn in the 7th house of partners.  Do you see? This Lunar
Return is also part of a Full Moon Phase!
Can you imagine how this December Lunar Return Chart might have
expressed itself if she had not previously settled the divorce in late
September?
Female
This is the natal chart of a client whose daughter was born with a serious heart disorder that
threatened her health off and on, despite many attempts to treat and correct the problem.
Nonetheless, her daughter had gone on to try and live a normal life, and married and had 3
children without experiencing any cardiac complications.  During her last 6 months her
daughter told her privately she had decided to divorce her husband, but she woulddie
suddenly of cardiac failure on May 23, 2010 at the age of 36 before pursuing a divorce.
The Lunar Return chart above shows clearly a potential for shock and
sadness and possible loss for my client.  Note the close square from
Uranus, with Uranus conjunct the 8th house cusp, and of the close square
from Saturn.
What else do you notice about this Lunar Return Chart?
Male
This is the natal chart of a client I’ve known for the last twelve years.  The Lunar Return
Chart that follows shows a unique emphasis around the Moon!  His Moon is applying close
to a New Moon Phase and a Solar Eclipse, plus Venus is also conjunct the Moon and Sun.
Note also Uranus sextile the Moon, Jupiter and Neptune in the 4th house and Mars conjunct
the MC opposite the IC.  During this Lunar Return he would become a father for the first
time upon the birth of a son on January 27, 2010.
How might Mars in Leo on the MC reflect his feelings during the
month of his son’s birth?
Here is the natal chart for US President Barack Obama.  The Lunar Return chart that follows
is the one that occurred immediately following his election as President.
The Moon is not strongly aspected in this Lunar Return Chart, but I noticed
the angular positions of Uranus and Saturn.  Looks like a possible change of
career, something radical and new!  Likewise it appears that his home and
family life would be going through some serious changes!
What else do you notice about this Lunar Return, or in comparison with his
natal chart?
Now look at the Lunar Return chart that David found for the month prior
to his lecture, during which time the election would occur!
What similarities do you notice between this chart and the Lunar Return
that will follow in November?