Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
MODULE ONE, Lesson 1 “Interpreting a Natal Chart”
Learning how to recognize patterns of meaning…
© www.nodoor.com
David Railey and Nodoor.com welcome you to
your Online Professional Astrology program!
You are about to participate in a unique course in
western astrology in China. The purpose of this 12
month online course is to prepare you for both
professional practice and certification in modern
western astrology.  Your program is divided into 12
sections or modules that provide you with: extensive
online material, live online lectures, live online
question and answer sessions, homework, monthly tests, audio (voice stream)
segments, and a final exam.  This course is available in both Chinese and English, all
English lectures are interpreted live, audio segments are in English and Chinese, and
all course material has been translated into Chinese.  We wish you every success in
this learning adventure.
Sincerely,
David R. Railey
Initial Instructions:
To log on to your Professional Astrology program go to:
http://nodoor.confcloud.cn
You will have already received your log-in name and password by
email, along with instructions for easy navigation of this site.
If you have any problems with this program site, please contact our Nodoor.com
offices at 010-58263061, or email us at noddoor@vip.126.com
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
All student Questions can be posted on our COAC student forum
athttp://bbs.nodoor.com/
The Zodiacal Alphabet
“Resonance” between sign, planet, house and aspect
 Know your astrological alphabet!
SIGN
PLANET
HOUSE
ASPECT
Aries
Mars
1
conjunction
Taurus
Venus
2
semi-sextile
Gemini
Mercury
3
sextile
Cancer
Moon
4
square
Leo
Sun
5
trine
Virgo
Mercury
6
quincunx
Libra
Venus
7
opposition
Scorpio
Pluto
8
quincunx
Sagittarius
Jupiter
9
trine
Capricorn
Saturn
10
square
Aquarius
Uranus
11
sextile
Pisces
Neptune
12
semi-sextile
(other symbols you should know
South Node, North Node
and Retrograde
)
ZODIACAL ALPHABET *
“Why is it important for me to review these zodiac
associations before interpreting a natal chart?”
“Review is repetition.  You need to automatically make
these associations in your mind.  Recognizing these
associations will allow you to recognize patterns in a natal
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
chart.  The patterns in a natal chart will correspond to patterns of
identity and experience in the person‟s life.”
*All colors are grouped according the King Color Wheel
Example of an
astrological pattern
in a natal chart:
He has 3 personal
planets in Scorpio
and 5 aspects with
Pluto:
Moon square Pluto
Venus opposite Pluto
Mars opposite Pluto
Jupiter conjunct Pluto
Uranus sextile Pluto
 This is an example of a SCORPIO pattern or THEME of associations.
“What about the Scorpio Quincunx aspect?  Isn‟t that on the Zodiacal
Alphabet of Scorpio associations?  What is a Scorpio Quincunx?  Is
that the Quincunx that comes after the opposition, like the quincunx
between Mars and Neptune in this chart?  Why isn‟t this aspect part
of the Scorpio pattern or theme too?
“You are right!  Another name for a Scorpio quincunx is a „waning‟
quincunx because it comes after the opposition in the cycle between
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
Mars and Neptune.  We will consider what are called waxing and waning aspectsand
their importance in Lesson 2 of Module One.  For now just recognize that every
natal chart has patterns of association or themes.  Such themes resonate with
identity and experience!
“Didn‟t these associations and themes originate in Classical Western
Astrology?  Why are we only using what a Classical astrologer would
call rulerships or domicile.  Classical astrologers weighed a chart
based upon what were considered fortunate or unfortunate birth
chart placements.  Why do modern astrologers not do this?”
“Yes, these associates were developed in classical or Hellenistic
astrology over 2300 years ago.  Classical astrology is still practiced by
many astrologers in the west, but the majority of modern western
astrologers practice a more Humanistic type of astrology.  The main
difference is philosophical.  Classical astrology is deterministic rather
than humanistic.”
 Classical associations of signs and planets were called “rulerships”
 Rulership was also called “domicile”
 Rulership was one of 4 categories called “dignities and debilities”
Table of the most commonly used of the traditional essential
dignities, or DIGNITIES and DEBILITIES:
(Note that the traditional rulers are still listed in blue)
Sign
Ruler(domicile) Detriment Exaltation
Fall
Aries
Mars
Venus
Sun
Saturn
Taurus
Venus
Pluto&Mars Moon
None
Gemini
Mercury
Jupiter
None
None
Cancer
Moon
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
Leo
Sun
Saturn
Pluto
None
Virgo
Mercury
Jupiter
Mercury
Venus
Libra
Venus
Mars
Saturn
Sun
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
Scorpio
Pluto &Mars
Venus
None
Moon
Sagittarius Jupiter
Mercury
None
None
Capricorn
Saturn
Moon
Mars
Jupiter
Aquarius
Uranus &Saturn
Sun
None
Pluto
Pisces
Neptune &Jupiter Mercury
Venus
Mercury
“If most modern western astrologers don’t use this list of
Essential Dignities, then why should we learn them?”
“This list of Essential Dignities is important in understanding
astrology‟s history and the evolution of astrological ideas.  However,
even though most modern astrologers use only the modern rulership
column, ofassociate signs and planets, these Essential Dignities may
be referred to in Final Exams such as ISAR’s Competency Exam,
or other exams, so you should become familiar with them.”
“Modern Astrology Reinvented itself in the 20th Century”
Maslow’s Humanistic Psychology strongly influenced western astrology’s evolution
in the 20th Century.  Dane Rudhyar was the first Humanistic Astrologer.
 Modern astrology is humanistic rather than deterministic
 Humanistic astrology seeks to develop an individual‟s potential
Abraham Maslow
Dane Rudhyar
Noel Tyl in 1976
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 6
 Humanistic astrologers identify patterns of development
 Humanistic astrologers encourage personal growth
 Humanistic astrologers work with their clients to find solutions
Commentary on: “Modern Astrology is Humanistic rather than deterministic.”
This resonance between planet, sign,
house and aspect was traditionally
called rulership, though the more
modern term is associate planet or
associate sign, etc.  For example, Mars
was called the ruler of Aries, or the
Sun the ruler of Leo, though now we
would say Aries is associated with
Mars, or the Sun is associated with Leo
and vice versa.  Another „traditional‟
view of the planets in signs was called
dignities and debilities, or essential
dignities which was a way to rank the
planets by sign in terms of how well
they expressed the nature of a
particular sign.  Both modern day
Classical Astrologers and Horary
Astrologers make significant use of
these dignities and debilities, though
by in large modern western astrologers
do not put much weight upon these
classifications.  However, you should at
least be familiar with this tradition, so
study the grid that shows how the
traditional planets
were ranked according
to sign.  Please note
that the outer planets
Uranus (1781), Neptune (1846), Pluto
(1930), are included in a modern
adaptation to the scheme of dignities
and debilities, even though they were
unknown in Classical times (note: years
of discovery).  Current day Classical
astrologers and many Horary
astrologers do not use or include
Uranus, Neptune and Pluto is this
classification or in their chart
interpretation.  The planet (dwarf
planet) Eris (2005) has not been added
to this scheme, as much discussion is
still underway regarding the nature and
influence of this dwarf planet, now
classified along with Pluto and Ceres as
a dwarf planet.  Humanistic
astrologers see the system
of essential dignities as
“essentially flawed”
philosophically, and there is
much debate still regarding these
hierarchal rankings.  Such a
deterministic view lends itself to bias
and judgment, which is not the way
modern humanistic astrology is
practiced.  As astrologer Michael Lutin
has humorously stated: “What is so
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 7
„exalted‟ about Venus in Pisces anyway?
I know plenty of individuals with Venus
in Pisces.  What‟s so exalted about
working an extra job just to pay for
your husband‟s hair transplants?”  The
table of Essential Dignities listed is
not the final authority on these
rankings.  Neither 17th Century English
Astrologer William Lilly nor Claudius
Ptolemy 1400 years earlier, agreed on
the same classifications use or
positions of essential dignities.  I have
not relied upon these Essential
Dignities in my practice, but you should
know them since they may be listed on
some of the professional astrology
examinations.
The NATAL CHART of Mahatma Mohandas Gandhi
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 8
Books about Gandhi’s life to read and study and compare to his chart:
我体验真理的故事•甘地自传
甘地的武器:一个人的非暴力之路
圣雄修身录
甘地的真理:好战的非暴力起源平装 – 2010年6月1日
 Humanistic astrologers identify patterns of development
“What patterns of development do you see in Gandhi‟s birth chart?”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 9
Organizing and Preparing A Natal Chart Interpretation
 The first step in chart organization is to fill in the aspect grid.
“I can already recognize aspects.  Why should I bother to
fill in this grid with all of the natal chart aspects?”
“You need the practice.  By listing the aspects you will be
able to find patterns that are less visible at first glance.
Unless you are already capable of recognizing all of the
aspects in your mind with your eyes closed after only looking
at a chart for 1 minute, you need to practice!”
(Print this table for practice.)
Asc MC
Use the orbs listed here for your
aspects.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 10
“The measurement of the chart is the science. The
interpretation of the chart is an art.”  Noel Tyl
Learning how to interpret a natal chart is an art.  However, like any „art‟ it
involves a process of familiarizing yourself with your tools and learning
techniques that can make you a better artist!  These methods and techniques follow a logical
sequence of steps to both assist you with your powers of observation and accelerate your
capacity to both organize and analyze the data.
“Let’s start with a first look at our sample chart of Gandhi.”
The first thing is to simply make notes about what stands out to you upon your initial review of the
chart.  Write your initial observations down on a sheet of paper.  You can rearrange them afterwards,
as you go along.Your eyes will be drawn to the obvious first.  You will notice that Gandhi was born with
3 personal planets in Scorpio
: Mercury, Venus and Mars, all in his 1st House.Then you might notice
that he had both his Sun in Libra and his ASCN, with his Sun in the 12th House.Next you‟d see that he
has the Moon in Leo and
the North Node in Leo,
both in the 10th House.
Think about these things
as you jot them down.
What does it mean to
have 3 personal planets in
Scorpio?  In the first
house?  What does it
mean to have Libra as
both your Sun sign and
your Rising Sign?  What
might the Moon and the
North in Leo in the 10th
House suggest?  You want
to start your thinking
process.  You are a long
way from drawing any
conclusions at this point,
but you are writing down
your first impressions.
As you continue to write,
you‟ll note that he has
Jupiter and Pluto in
Taurus opposite his Venus
and Mars and square his
Moon!  Perhaps you‟ll
notice that Neptune in Aries is trine his Moon, or that Uranus in Cancer is conjunct his MC and square
his ASCN, or Mercury square the Lunar Nodes, or even his Libra Sun sextile Saturn in Sagittarius?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 11
But, you may ask, what do we do with all of this data?  How do we organize it?  More importantly,
WHAT HAS PRIORITY?  In other words, how do you know what‟s important and what isn‟t?
Prioritizing Natal Chart Data
PRIORITY LIST:
1. THE ANGLES, meaning the ASCN and the MC (which naturally
includes the DSCN and the IC).
 The Angles are important by SIGN and ASPECT
 Aspects to the Angles are significant modifiers!
 The birth time must be close to count Angle aspects.
Consider that the aspects formed by the Angles are the most “unique” factor
of that moment. You know that the MC moves at the rate of approximately 1
degree every 4 minutes of time.  Thus the rate of movement of the Angles
(the Earth spinning on its axis) is the fastest moving factor in a chart.  In fact
the aspects to the Angles „define‟ the uniqueness of the moment, and
represent the most individualistic factors in a natal chart.  The stamp of
personality and the specific qualities of career or professional orientation, as
well as home life or characteristics of private life and marriage and
partnership, are all „uniquely‟ identified by the aspects to the angles.
Aspect priority to the ASCN and MC (Includes the DSCN and the IC).
Aspect ORBS for the Angles:
Aspect ORBS for the planets:
Conjunction, orb 7 degrees
7 degrees
Opposition, orb 7 degrees
7 degrees
Square, orb 7 degrees
7 degrees
Trine, orb 6 degrees
7 degrees
Sextile, orb 5 degrees
6 degrees
Quinqunx, orb 3 dgrees
3 degrees
Semi-sextile, orb 2 degrees
2 degrees
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 12
Prioritizing Natal Chart Data continued…
2. The Moon
by sign and house and aspect.
3. The Sun
by sign and house and aspect.
4. The Lunar Nodes
by sign, house and aspect.
5. Mercury
, Venus
and Mars
by sign, house and aspect.
(Each of these 3 planets is of equal importance in their own category of
expression and association.)
6. Jupiter
and Saturn
by sign, house and aspect.
7. Uranus
, Neptune
and Pluto
by house and aspect,
only partially by sign.
Notes on natal chart priorities:
From the priorities listed above you can see that
the Angles, Sun, Moon, Lunar Nodes and personal
planets have the highest priority.  The planets
Jupiter and Saturn are still important by sign and
house position, but their relevance is increased when they
aspect and angle, the Sun, Moon, Lunar Nodes or personal
The CLOSER THE ASPECT the MORE IMPORTANT it
is, the wider the aspect the less important it is!
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 13
planets.  The personal planets, including the Sun and Moon
are the most human things about each of us.  Aspects to
Jupiter and Saturn involve the “meaning of these planets”
in our everyday experience of life.  This is true of the
outer planets Uranus, Neptune and Pluto; the relevance of
these plantes is shown by how they connect by aspect to
the Angles, Sun, Moon, Nodes and personal planets.
Priortizing Gandhi’s Natal Chart
1. Libra Ascendant square Uranus, orb 4 degrees 45 minutes &square DSCN
Cancer MC conjunct Uranus, orb 4 degrees 54 minutes opposite the IC
The square to the DSCN should be considered too, because that which impacts
his personality also influences his partnership life.  The same is true in terms
of the opposition to his IC, i.e. what is visible in his public life aslo impacts his
private or domestic life.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 14
“What does it mean that Uranus is singled out in this way?  Does it
mean that his career would be unusual in some way, or perhaps
unstable?  Would his urge to do things differently create chaos in his
life, especially in his marriage or family life?”
“Good questions!  In the negative sense an “angular” Uranus might
indicate a potential for creating chaos and instability.  Yet, Uranus is
also the “liberator” and suggests someone who could rebel from the
status quo.  He might “experiment” with his life as well, taking risks to
reinvent his career, relationship and family life.”
Priortizing Gandhi’s Natal Chart continued…
2. Moon in Leo in 10th House
What does Moon in Leo mean?  In House 10?
Square Venus, orb 3 degrees 32‟
Square Mars, orb 1 degree 34‟
Square Jupiter, orb 0 degrees 12‟ (closest aspect to the Moon)
Square Pluto, orb 2 degrees 19‟
Trine Neptune, orb 1 degree 33‟
Semi-sextile Uranus, orb 1 degree 21‟
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 15
[Note how close these aspects are, especially to Jupiter, Mars and Neptune.]
“It looks to me like Gandhi was a complex man emotionally, and
that he may have grown up in a family where there were a lot
of pressures, upsets and turmoil.  However, his mother may
have been a spiritual influence (Moon trine Neptune), though
she was bossy (Leo) in some ways too.  Control battles appear
mixed with money and financial pressures.  With Jupiter
involved (and the closest aspect to the Moon), this might
“inflate” or “increase” the turmoil over the use of family
money and resources, since Taurus and Scorpio are involved.”