Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
COAC Module Two Lesson 1
“Forecasting with TRANSITS”
© www.nodoor.com
What are transits exactly?  Does this just mean
where the planets are moving now?
I don’t think that transits are just where the
planets are right now, but where the Sun, Moon and
planets could be any time in the past or the future.
Here are some books, or Ephemerides - eachone is
called an Ephemeris, that list the positions of the
Sun, Moon, and planets for every day of the year
for anywhere from 17, 50 to 100 years .
Sample Ephemerides.  Each of these is
set up for Midnight Ephemeris Time or ET, similar to GMT.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
More sample Ephemerides…
The 2 Ephemerides on the upper left are set up for Midnight
ET.  The white Ephemeris on the right is set up for Noon ET.
Midnight ET is best for China, making every day exact for
8:00 AM Beijing Time.
“I guess I could use the 20th Century Ephemeris to
look back at transits that have already occurred in
my life to learn more about them, right?”
If the Ephemeris says “The New AmericanEphemeris” it means that it
has been updated to include the former asteroid Ceres as a planet, a
column for Chiron, and a monthly listing for the new planet Eris.  The
New American Ephemeris also contains data on the Lunation Cycles, i.e.
the monthly phases of New Moon, First Quarter, Full Moon and Last
Quarter, with added information on Eclipses and other phenomena such
as planetary retrogrades, etc.  Some Ephemerides contain much more
data, such as The New American Ephemeris 2013 – 2020.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
“I’m thinking of keeping a TRANSIT DIARY!  I could write
or draw in a notebook or even make notes in my iPhone
notebook.  This might be a way I could learn about transits
and get a better real life feel for them.”
I found I really disagreed
with their opinion today. It
was totally opposite from
what I believe is true!
my natal
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
Why do I need to own an Ephemeris?  Can’t I just use my
mobile or iPad to just find out where the Sun, Moon, and
planets are whenever I want to?
First off you will need an Ephemeris when you learn about
Secondary Progressions.  But, look at the Ephemeris page
below.  What do you think an Ephemeris might offer you that
is different than using a chart on your mobile or iPad?
Here is a sample page from The New Ephemeris for the 21st Century,
with Ceres listed between Mars and Jupiter and Chiron listed between
Saturn and Uranus.  The Moon is listed for both midnight and noon.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
This looks a bit confusing to me?  I think I understand
what I’m looking at but I don’t understand why this is
better than just looking at my iPhone chart?
What if you wanted to see where Pluto was going to be in
2015 or 2016?  What if you were born with the Moon at
15 degrees of Capricorn and you wanted to see how many
times Pluto would be at 15 degrees of Capricorn?
I see what you mean, I think?  But couldn’t I just access
an Ephemeris online and flip the pages by clicking?
Sure, try this and then compare it to turning the pages of
an Ephemeris and see which one works best for you?  You
can easily access Ephemeris pages at:
http://www.astro.com/swisseph/swepha_e.htm
Also you can actually print Ephemeris pages for yourself by going to:
http://www.cafeastrology.com/2014ephemeris.html
The Ephemeris pages at cafeastrology.com are very easy to read and
contain additional information such as:
 The ingress of a planet into a sign. (Ingress means sign change.)
 Planetary stations. (A station means either going retrograde or
Direct.)
 Lunar ingress & void of course Moon
 Lunar Phases & Eclipses
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 6
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 7
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 8
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 9
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 10
What’s the importance of planetary stations?  Also, I don’t
understand what a void of course Moon means?  Nor do I
understand the meaning of the Lunar phases or Eclipses?
Don’t worry;
 planetary stations
 void of course Moon
 Lunar Phases and Eclipses
will all be covered during our Transit webinars.
I want to know more about how to use TRANSITS.  I’ve
read different rules about orbs, and what has priority.
There seems to be different opinions.  I would like some
answers to the following questions:
1. Where do we start when we look at transits?
2. How long does a transit last; don’t different planets have different
lengths of influence?
3. What is the most important transit in a given period?
4. When two or more transits happen at the same time how to we
combine these in the interpretation? For example, Saturn transit and
Jupiter transit seem to have an opposite meaning?
5. Which is more important, transit to a house or transit to a planet?
6.  Will the faster moving planet transit matter?
7. How do we interpret a transiting planet in different aspect
combinations?
8. How to interpret transit of house versus transit of planet?
9. Do we consider the house or the ruler of the house?
10. What is the methodology of interpreting transits?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 11
ORGANIZING the PRIORITIES of TRANSITS
A transit simply refers to the positions of the Sun,
Moon, and planets for any time period.  An astrologer
will look at where the Sun, Moon, and planets are and
compare them with a natal chart. So an astrologer is
making a “comparative analysis.”
PRIORITIES of TRANSITING PLANETS COMPARED TO NATAL
Transit
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Natal
ASC
MC
 You can use this grid to list the transits to a natal chart.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 12
Further explanations on the priorities of transits…
When considering which transits are the most important first select the outer
planet transits and compare them to „personal planets or points‟ in a natal
chart.  This means look to see if these personal planets or points are being
aspected in any significant way.
So, as you can see from the graph above, the order of importance is actually
„reverse‟ than that of the transits themselves.
Transits through the Houses
The outer planets can stay in a House for many years.  Uranus on average will
stay in a house for 7 years for example.  The inner planets move through
faster, except when Retrograde, observe these retrogrades carefully.  Mars
will normally transit through a house in 6 or 7 weeks, but when retrograde
might stay there for 7 or 8 months!  Pay attention to transiting Mars; it
always shows the area that is hot and full of activity!
The Orbs of Transiting Aspects
This orb of 3 degrees applying and 1 degree separating is for all of the
planets, including the Moon and the Sun and the Lunar Nodes.  Because the
outer planets move the slowest by transit, their influence lasts over a much
longer period of time.  Typically a transit of Pluto will last 2 ½ to 3 years,
leaving no stone unturned!  Neptune will transit for almost as long, at least 2
to 2 ½ years.  By aspect a transit of Uranus will last 1 ½ to 2 years.  Saturn
will usually last for 1 year.  A transit of Jupiter typically lasts for several
weeks or months depending upon where it makes its Direct or Retrograde
motion.  These Direct or Retrograde changes are called planetary stations.
Planetary Stations are very important!
Anytime a planet is near its stationary position it appears to be moving slower
through that section of the zodiac.  If you were born with the Venus at 12
degrees of Cancer, you would notice that transiting Uranus makes its station
onDecember22 at 12 degrees of Aries.  Thus Uranus remains close to exactly
square Venus for several months around this stationary retrograde period,
increasing the significance of this transit during these months.  Pay attention
to these planetary stations!  Watch where a planet is going Retrograde and
then Direct.  Many times a planet will be aspected 3 times! Jupiter will go
Retrograde in December at 22 degrees of Leo and then Direct in April at 12
degrees of Leo.  Thus the span of motion is between 12 and 22 degrees of
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 13
the fire sign Leo.  If you have any personal planets in fire signs between 12
and 22 degrees they will be aspected trine or conjunction.
Long Term trends
The best way to organize your approach to using transits is to list the long
term transits first.  List them in the order you‟ve seen on the graph: Pluto,
Neptune, Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and the transiting Lunar North Node. By
listing these longer term transits first you‟ll recognize what the larger issues
are for the next year or more.
PLUTO transits imply fundamental changes are underway in a person‟s life.
Things may never be the same again.  Pluto transits often mark rites of
passages in one‟s life, such as the birth of children to you or within the family,
(family DNA is being passed on), family crisis or family breakthroughs may
occur, the loss of family members is possible, personal crisis or personal
breakthroughs are likewise possible.  Pluto is also about gaining empowerment
through confronting fears, and power struggles with others.  Control battles
are typical, but much depends upon the willingness and capacity of the person
to become more powerful in their life. Pluto transits are excellent for getting
to the bottom of problems and discovering life altering solutions.  No other
transit offers the depth of opportunity to transform your life than a Pluto
transit.  Such transformation can occur in any area of life, career,
relationships, family, health, and personality.
NEPTUNE transits tend to be associated with complex situations that require
a more sensitive response.  Oftentimes the person becomes more sensitive and
impressionable in their experience of life.  Dreams and imagination become
more vivid.  Those who have a creative outlet may find this a highly inspired
time in their life.  Spiritually inclined individuals could develop an even more
spiritual or mystical appreciation for life.  The urge to escape from the world
is common with this transit, as the problems of the everyday world may seem
or become too overwhelming. Healthy escape may include visits to ashrams or
temples, more extensive spiritual practices, and an increase in creative self-
expression.  However, addiction, and unhealthy escapist behavior can
temporarily lead to a confused and dysfunctional existence. Mundane details
may become neglected, reflecting the sense of neglect and isolation the person
themselves feels.  Disillusionment is typical, and a person may feel that their
life is not as they “imagined it would be.” Working through this disillusionment
can lead to a „new vision‟ of their life, as the person becomes re-inspired in
their life.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 14
URANUS transits indicate either a greater urge to free oneself from static
conditions or imply sudden and unexpected developments that challenge the
individual to quickly invent new ways to handle unstable circumstances.  This
transit is often characterized by increased restlessness, impulsiveness, or
rebelliousness.  Restrictive past conditions can no longer be easily tolerated
and the need to reinvent oneself and one‟s life can lead to a radical phase of
experimentation.  Constructively this trend can lead to a healthy reinvention
of one‟s life. However, if a person behaves too recklessly the resulting chaos
could mark a period of significant instability.  Others, including the person
themselves, may be shocked and surprised by their own unusual behavior,
atypical of what is has been normal for them.  Nonetheless, accelerated
learning of new areas of interest can lead to positive changes and
improvements.  Many times the improvements that are learned become a part
of the person‟s life long after the trend is over.
SATURN transits are a measure of both how well a person handles
responsibility and how workable their plan really is.  Saturn reflects your level
of commitment in regards to the amount of time and effort it takes to
accomplish you objectives.  Frustrations challenge the person to consider more
efficient and effective ways of working and managing their time.  Taking on
work and responsibilities that one is not properly prepared to handle through
lack of training or experience may become glaringly obvious and mark this
phase as period of hardship.  Harsh conditions and increased pressures natural
test commitments in career, relationships and family.  One‟s sense of duty and
obligation is highlighted by this trend.  People who are naturally disciplined and
manage their time and obligations responsibly are more likely to experience
this phase as one of accomplishment and achievement.  Irresponsible
individuals will more typically experience the negative consequences of their
behavior during this trend, including but not limited to legal penalties,
sanctions, or sentences.  Punishment of legal wrongdoings is typical of a
Saturn transit.  However, the pursuit of realistic goals carried out in a
responsible or disciplined manner can bring about improvements in career,
health, and relationships.
JUPITER transits tend to encourage people to open more to life.
A sense of adventure or expansiveness is characteristic.  However,
overdoing, extravagance, and excessiveness can waste resources
and endanger a person‟s health during this phase.  Much depends
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 15
upon how one handles the benefits or the promise of benefits.
Advancement in career, relationship opportunity, and short term
improvements in health can occur.  The urge to travel may take a
person far afield.  An inclination to takes classes, workshops and
to read more books can make this an expansive learning cycle within
which new concepts and philosophies emerge that increase a
person‟s overall understanding of their life and the lives of others.
Some may become lazy during this trend, taking opportunities and
promised benefits for granted, resulting in nothing substantial being
accomplished or realized.
Short Term trends and triggers
Next you need to look at the faster moving planets for short term trends.
However, most importantly, these faster moving planets act as „triggers‟ in a
chart, especially when they aspect a natal planet that is already being
aspected by one of the outer planets!  Here are some clues about how to use
the faster moving transits.
Mars will always show where the „action‟ is!  You must look at Mars before
you talk with your client!  Mars will tell you their immediate concerns.  Mars is
the most obvious trigger and will generally stir things up, indicating strife,
upsets, and aggravations of all kinds.  Pay attention where Mars retrogrades,
this will be an important area of activity.
Venus will show you where there are short term financial or social gains or
developments of some kind.  Even during stressful times Venus will show where
there is some brief break from difficulties.  Even by square or opposition
Venus is not really a problem.  Sometimes it may show spending too much
money or too much partying, but only for a short time.  However, watch
where Venus retrogrades!  This can show more significant gains.  One client
had Venus in Scorpio stationary retrograde over her natal Moon and received a
large sum of money from an insurance company following a fire that had
burned down one of her rental properties.  She had been unable to sell this
property, so the money was a blessing to her and she was quite pleased.
Mercury tells you what‟s being said to whom!  Mercury shows where the
ideas and information are that could impact you in important ways – especially
when it triggers outer planet transits already in effect.  Likewise pay
attention to the 3 Retrograde Mercury‟s that occur each year.  Wherever
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 16
Mercury retrogrades in your chart will be a more important area of focus and
concern for the time Mercury is there.  Mercury will tell you about meetings,
speeches, introductions, and all manner of networking and correspondence.
Mercury is about connecting ideas and information!
The Sun is an annual transit and will typically reveal to you similar issues
every year when it transits through the same area of your chart.  This is why
someone might say, “April is a difficult month for me every year!” because
when the Sun is moving through Aries it opposes all of her Libra planets.
However, the Sun can also act as a trigger.  Do not ignore the Sun just
because it‟s in the same place every year!  The Sun can trigger major events,
just like Mars!
The Moon moves very fast of course.  Three degrees applying and 1 degree
separating means that a typical lunar transit will last an average total of
about 8 hours, because the Moon moves about 1 degree every 2 hours.  The
Moon acts as a trigger too!  However, because it moves so fast you could
easily overlook the Moon as a factor in your forecast analysis.  The Moon will
not be as important a trigger as Mars and the Sun or even as Venus and
Mercury, but it does impact feelings and situations in meaningful and
observable ways.  Because the Moon moves so fast you should consider a lunar
transit primarily in detailed forecasting work that focuses on particular day or
week in question.  The Moon is of course important in terms of Eclipses, which
we are about to cover.
______________________________________________________________
Look back in your own life to see when you had a Pluto transit, or a Neptune transit, or
Uranus transit?
When I met Tian I
had transiting
Neptune squaring
my Venus!
I remember her
saying Tian was the
man of her dreams,
but he forgot to
mention his other
girlfriend.