Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
COAC Module 4 Lesson 2: Solar Arc Directions
© www.nodoor.com
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
Li Ming was in the process of completing her PhD Literature program in Dec. 2012 and planned to
defend her dissertation during the winter, hoping to receive her PhD by spring of 2013. In addition to
literature she also has a degree in English.  Her plan was to
teach at a major University and she had received a favorable
response from several colleges; one in particular that she
hoped would formally accept her after she obtained her
doctorate.  In addition Ming is a talented writer and was
working on a novel based upon her father’s life then.  Li Ming’s
early life was dramatically impacted by the loss of her father
when she was nearly 3 years old.  Her father had been a highly
respected university professor whose promising career had
been destroyed after he allied himself with radical teachers in
1989.  Dismissed from the university and banned from
teaching, Ming’s father was unable to find gainful employment,
and suffered from investigation by authorities.  To make ends
meet he worked sporadically as a store clerk, and eventually
as a garbage collector.  Severely depressed, he committed
suicide in December 1990 shortly before Ming’s 3rd birthday.
Ming’s mother, also highly educated, had a degree in
Psychology, and worked in Human Relations for a large
government owned utility company.  Raised by her mother
and her mother’s family, Ming also grew-up loving and
respecting her grandfather who had been a high school
teacher.  A very bright and sensitive student early on, Ming wrote poetry as well as essays that gained
high praise from her teachers throughout her academic experience.  Her mother, an attractive woman,
never remarried, but had worked diligently to advance the cultural acceptance of psychology, forming
the first support group for grieving families dealing with loss.   At the recommendation of a friend, Li
Ming had decided to consult a professional astrologer for the first time.  Naturally she had questions
about completing her PhD program, defending her dissertation, and her applications for teaching that
are pending.  In addition, over the last 7 to 8 months she had become romantically involved with an
older professor at her university.  Only her best friend knew about the relationship, as the professor
was separated from his wife but not yet legally divorced.  Ming surprised herself by impulsively
pursuing the professor romantically.  She had confessed to her friend that this was the most exciting
relationship she had ever experienced, though she wondered if it would last given his circumstances
and her ambitions.  Despite her romantic excitement and current preoccupation with the professor,
Ming was intent upon finishing her novel, which she temporarily set aside while working on her
dissertation.
Questions regarding Li Ming’s natal chart and Dec. 2012 solar arc trends:
1. What in her natal chart suggests that her father might have been respected in his field?
2. What suggests that her father might have been a teacher or professor?
3. What indicates unusual circumstances that could have disrupted her father’s life?
4. What implies the “potential” loss of an important male influence in her life?
5. What suggests a grandfather might play a significant role in her life?
6. What indicates Ming’s scholastic aptitude and her talent as a writer?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
7. Is there anything in her chart that suggests some inclination towards poetry?
8. What suggests that her mother had an interest in psychology?
9. What implies her mother might have experienced loss?
10. Identify the astrological reasons that compel her to write a novel about her father’s life.
11. Describe astrologically the underlying themes or issues that you would expect in her
relationship life and why.
12. What solar arc aspect was stimulating Li Ming to be impulsive romantically?
13. What other solar arc aspect was activating her emotional and relationship life?
14. Was there any indication that she should take precautions regarding pregnancy?
15. Which solar arc aspects will be exact over the next several years that could be important
relationship wise?
16. What significant solar arc aspects were in effect when her father died?
17. Are there any solar arc indicators regarding her current academic career?
18. Did it appear she was likely to obtain her PhD?
19. What were her chances of obtaining a teaching position at the University she wanted most?
20. What solar arc aspect implied that her career life is currently in line with her sense of direction
in life?
21. Was it likely her affair with the professor would last?
22. Do you think she would finish her novel?  If so, based upon her solar arc, when would be the
most likely times it could be published?
23. Explain what was motivating her to pursue this relationship with the professor; support your
reasons astrologically.
24. How would you advise her regarding her relationship with the professor?
25. What could she learn from this relationship?
26. How would you advise her in terms of her overall relationship life?
27. How would you advise her regarding her career?
28. What are some of her deeper issues with her mother?
29. Describe the different ways that Li Ming’s story fits the nodal pattern of her chart; explain the
nodal dispositor chain as it relates to the patterns of her life.
30. Do you think she will marry and become a parent?  What issues does she face when it comes to
marriage?
31. What issues would she face in regards to having a child?  Support your answers astrologically.