1
COAC Module 11 Lesson 2
ISAR Competency Examination Overview
© www.nodoor.com
NEW and IMPROVED EXPLANATION with Appended Information Review
EXTRACT FROM ISAR CERTIFICATION OUTLINE
I. Fundamental Educational Requirements
A. An overview of astrology including History of Astrology
Since this is a vast study unto itself it is suggested that one read:
History of Horoscopic Astrology, James H. Holden (From Babylonian to the present time)
Common terms and phrases found in this book include:
Albumasar
Alchabitius
Alexandrian
Arabic
ASC degree
aspect
asteroids
astronomical
Babylonian
Bonatti (Guido)
calculated calendar called
Capricorn century B.C.
Chapter Classical
conjunction contains
Cosmobiology cusps
decans
Dorotheus edition
ephemerides
Firmicus (Julius Firmicus
Maternus)
fixed stars
fixed zodiac
Gauquelin
Greek astrology
Guido Bonatti
Hermes Trismegistus
Horary astrology
horoscopic astrology
house division
Kepler
Lilly's London
Lot of Fortune
Masha'allah
Mathesis by Firmicus
Morin
mundane astrology
natal astrology
Placidus
Ptolemy 100 - 178 A.D.
Regiomontanus
Rhetorius
solar returns
system of house tables
Tetrabiblos
tropical zodiac
Vettius Valens
Don’t be alarmed by
these terms.  You know
many of them already.
2
The following excerpts give you the most general idea of how this book is organized:
Chapter One: The First Period - Babylonian Astrology
This was found in several copies in the library of the Assyrian King Ashurbanipal (reigned 669 -
627 B.C.)  It consists of 70 tablets, containing some 7,000 omina [omens]. Tablets 50 and 51
contain an astronomical ompendium called Mul Apin.  The material contained in these
Babylonian treatises became known to the Jews during their captivity in Babylon (587-539 B. C.)
and passed to the Persians when they conquered Babylonia in 539 B.C.  Through the Persians it
passed to Egypt during the period of Persian domination (525 - 404 B.C.) and to northwest India
(now Pakistan) by 509 B.C.  Some this material was translated into Egyptian and Greek in the
West and into Sanskrit in the East.  Instances of this are found in a demotic papyrus on eclipse
omina of the late second century A.D. (but ultimately derived from Babylonian material circa
500 B.C.)
Chapter Two: The Second Period - Classical Greek Astrology
Classical Greek or “Hellenistic Astrology” is generally considered to begin with the founding of
the city of Alexandria in 332 B.C.  The new city rapidly became an important cultural and
commercial center.  Its population consisted of three main groups: Greeks, Egyptians, and Jews.
Thus, the cultural, religious and (what passed for) scientific traditions of the Greeks, Egyptians,
and Babylonians were intermingled in one place.  The construction of a great library in
Alexandria attracted scholars from throughout the Greek-speaking world.  In the 2nd Century
BC Hipparchus discovered the Precession of the Equinox due to discrepancies he found
between "older Babylonian star tables" and "current star positions." Claudius Ptolemy (100 -
178 A.D.) would set 0 degrees of Aries as the beginning of the Zodiacal Calendar or Zodiac circa
127-132 A.D.  The Greeks would be the first to set up charts based upon the “hour,” i.e.
horoscopes or “horoscopus.” Classical Greek Astrology was adopted by the Romans who
absorbed everything Greek, and Classical Greek Astrology would be practiced in the West until
the fall of the Roman Empire after 476 A.D., and be banned or forced underground in the
Eastern Roman Empire or Byzantine Empire following the decrees of Emperor Justinian after
529 A.D., which also banned astrology, philosophy and the study of mathematics and shut
down such centers of learning as the centuries old Academy of Plato in Athens.
Chapter Three: Third Period - Medieval Astrology
Begins around the 8th Century A.D. with the Arabs and the rise of Islamic Culture and the
Golden Age of Islam that would have Baghdad is its cultural center.  All of the knowledge of
astrology of the Classical Greek Period would be revived, adopted and studied by the Arab.
Islamic culture would eventually reintroduce astrology to Europe, a process that was
accelerated by the European Crusades into the Holy Land.
Chapter Four: Fourth Period - Early Modern Astrology 1450 – 1800
The early modern age of western astrology began with the Renaissance and continued until
astrology ceased being taught in academia in the 1700’s during the early days of the scientific
revolution and the so called “Age of Enlightenment” or sometimes the “Age of Reason.”  During
the Renaissance western astrology was taught in academia, studied, debated, and extensively
practiced among the increasingly literate and educated population.
3
Chapter Five: Fifth Period - Modern Astrology 1800 to today
The Fifth Period is defined by the "invention of clocks and reliable methods of telling time
beginning in the late 1700's to 1800. By the early 1800’s there was no organized astrology in
the west.  Astrology had ceased to be a part of mainstream western society and only survived in
isolated pockets of a few remaining practitioners or “fortune tellers” and in almanacs.
Gradually an interest in astrology would reemerge in the western world, with astrologers like
Alan Leo in England and Evangeline Adams in the U.S. leading the way during the end of the
19th Century and the beginning of the 20th Century.  Following World War I, interest in astrology
would revive in France, Italy and especially in Germany – where an intense revival of interest,
reinvention and study of astrology would emerge, only to be slowly snuffed out by the rise of
the Nazis and World War II.  Astrology would develop more in England and the U.S. after WWII
and experience a second wave of popularity in the late 1960’s and 1970’s.  This second wave of
popularity expand the development of serious astrological organizations in the west, and lead
to certification and licensing practices and the eventual re-admittance of astrology as a
humanistic discipline into some programs in Universities.  Though Kepler College of Astrology
was denied national accreditation by a prejudiced  national board.
B. Other fundamental ISAR Exam requirements include:
A basic understanding of the various applications of Astrology
This means being familiar with the many different uses of astrological techniques.
Basic astronomy as applied to Astrology
Any such astronomical terms have been presented already in your course work.
Calculations of a birth chart, or return chart will NOT be required!
However, bring a calculator with you.  You may need to do some simple math for
Secondary Progressions, such as figuring the Secondary Progressed Moon.
The formulas are listed in your course material.  Here is a review of Secondary Progressions:
Calculating Secondary progressions by hand is not required for the
ISAR Competency Exam or the COAC Final Exam, with the exception
of the Progressed Moon, for which knowledge of its movement may
be required.
However, IT IS EASY TO CALCULATE SECONDARY PROGRESSIONS BY HAND, first all
you need is an Ephemeris for the year you were born.
4
If you were born before 2000, you can use an Ephemeris just like this to find your
Secondary Progressions for any year in your life.
If you were born May 2, 1988 and you wanted to know where your Secondary
Progressions are in 2015 just count ahead 27 days (for 27 years) and read the
corresponding positions.  This corresponding date would be May 29.  Of course,
now the question is: When are these positions exact?  Meaning, what month and
day of 2015 correspond exactly to May 29, 1988?
You can find this out by learning how to do the following calculations.  However,
if you prefer to use free calculation sites or buy software, that’s fine, but at least
learn how to estimate the positions of the Progressed Moon, and how to
calculate the A.C. D.
Calculating Secondary Progressionsions
Secondary Progressions are relatively easy to calculate.  First, you can
just count ahead in your Ephemeris 1 day for each year of the person’s
life.  This will give you the “approximate” positions of the progressed
planets.
5
However, to exactly calculate the secondary progressions you have to know:
“When are these positions listed in the Ephemeris exact?”
To determine the precise positions of the secondary progressions
you have to find what is called the ACD, or Adjusted Calculated
Date.
To find the ACD calculate the GMT or UT of the person in question.
For our example, use the birth chart of Brad Pitt, born December
18, 1963 at 6:31am in Shawnee, Oklahoma, USA.
1). Brad’s birth time is 6:31am CST (Zone 6 West), thus his GMT or UT is 12:31pm
2). Find the number of hours from the UT or GMT to the following midnight.  The
number of hours to the following midnight is 11hours and 29minutes.
3). Whatever the number of hours, add this to the Sidereal Time listed in your
Ephemeris at midnight on the date of birth.
Use a midnight Ephemeris. (All of you have a Midnight Ephemeris)
December 18, 1963, Sid. Time:  05:43:33
+
11:29:00
17:12:33
4). Using your Ephemeris for the year 1963 count forward if the GMT at birth is
PM, or backwards if the GMT is AM at birth, and find the date in your Ephemeris
that is closest  to the Sid: Time of 17:12:33.  The Ephemeris Sid. Time is 17:13:30.
You will find that this date is June 10.
5). June 10 is your ACD or Adjusted Calculated Date.  This means that all of the
positions listed in your Ephemeris for 1964 will correspond to June 10 of the year
in question.
6). For example, if you count in your Ephemeris from December 18, 1963 to
December 19, 1963, then the positions listed in the Ephemeris for December 19,
1963 correspond to the actual date of June 10, 1964.
7). As another example, suppose we wanted to know Brad Pitt’s secondary
progressions for his 20th year?  Count ahead, starting with December 18, 1963 as
the zero (0) date, you would find that January 7 corresponds to 20.  Thus the
positions listed in your Ephemeris for January 7, 1964 correspond to June 10,
1983. However, on June 10, 1983, Brad Pitt is still 19 years old.  For the
6
progressed positions that occur after he turns 20 years old you’d have to look at
January 8, 1964 – this would correspond to June 10, 1984, so he would have
already turned 20.  His exact positions for Dec. 19, 1983 would be different.
8. Progressed Moon – the progressed Moon moves relatively fast, an average of 1
degree per month.  Look at the average speed of the Moon on the progressed
dates in question:
June 10, 1984: January 8, 1964
1deg.
29 minutes
-
June 10, 1983: January 7, 1964
19deg.
26 minutes
24 hour range of motion of the Moon
12deg.   03 minutes
To list the monthly movement of the progressed Moon you would divide this
amount by 12 and add this increment to the Moon’s position on Jan. 7, 1964.
12.05⁰ ÷ 12 months = 1.004⁰ or 1 degree and 00.25 minutes
Progressed Moon: average monthly progressed motion 1 degree .25 of a minute.
The Progressed Moon is a very good timer!
June 10, 1983
19
26’
July 10, 1983
20
26’
Aug. 10, 1983
21
26’
Sept. 10, 1983
22
27’
Oct. 10, 1983
23
27’
Nov. 10, 1983
24
27’
Dec. 10, 1983
25
28’
Jan. 10, 1984
26
28’
Feb. 10, 1984
27
28’
Mar. 10, 1984
28
29’
Apr. 10, 1984
29
29’
May 10, 1984
0
29’
June 10, 1984
1
29’
7
The Progressed Moon is a great timer for shifts in issues and the
unfolding of trends.  Use an orb of 1 degree applying and 1 degree
separating for aspects; thus the Progressed Lunar aspects are in effect
for 2 months, 1 degree applying then 1 degree separating.
“Do we need to also Progress the ASC and MC?  These calculations look
very complicated?”
You do NOT have to learn how to calculate the Progressed ASC and MC
by hand, unless you want to.   However, to do so you would need to
also know how to calculate the House Cusps for a natal chart by hand.
The formula for hand calculation of a natal chart will be given out
during the latter part of this course.
Progressing the Angles – the Progressed ASC and MC are very important.  There
are a number of techniques for progressing the angles.  Here is one of the most
common.
1). If we wanted to Progress Brad Pitt’s angles for June 10, 1983, we need to
consider the following technique:
Set up Brad Pitt’s chart for the same time and place of birth, but now use the
progressed Sid. Time for January 7, 1964.
07:02:24
06:03:18
+
:59
1:05
Calculated Progressed Sid. Time   13:07:46
[Calculated Sid. Time at birth is: 11:48:55 (If you want to calculate Brad’s natal
Sid. Time formula by hand.)]
A Progressed Chart is always set up for the place of birth, thus you would use his
natal birthplace latitude and longitude, etc.  For Shawnee, OK USA
Latitude 35N19’38”
Longitude 96W55’30”
See the natal chart listed next for Brad Pitt, followed by his Progressed Chart in bi-
wheel with the Natal in the center
8
******************************************************************
Symbolism
This just means familiarity with the multilevel use of symbolism
Computer skills as applied to entering and extracting chart data
Any software program such as Kepler, etc.
Familiarity with Ephemerides and various Astrological Tables
Here is the top half of a page from The American Ephemeris for the 20th Century, for
November 1980.
9
Note where it says LONGITUDE, this simply referes to the positions of the planets along the
ecliptic.  The ecliptic is the apparent path of the Sun around the Earth, in fact the Earth’s orbit
around the Sun.  The eclipitic is divided into 12 signs, the signs of the Zodiac.   Each sign equals
30 degress X 12 = 360 degrees.  Thus the ecliptic is measured by ‘zodiacal longitude’ or the
longitude of the zodiac.  (Do not confuse zodiacal longitude with the lines of longitude on a
map or globe, which is terestrial
longitude.)
Sid. Time is short for Sidereal Time from the latin siderus for star, thus “Star Time.”
You will refer to this column of Sidereal Time when you learn to calculate the house positions of
a chart
2.  Natal Chart Interpretation, including specific areas of focus.
You will need to know how to “write” an interpretation.  Writing will take most of your time.
You will be allowed to used your computer to type your answers for any of the interpretations
asked for or essay type portions of the exam that require a lot of writing.
Please remember to bring:
1. A USB flash drive, very basic – simple memory.  This will store all the large written
portions of your exam.  Make sure you correctly label the section of the Exam in the
heading on each page.
2. Make sure your computer is fully charged before the exam in cast there are any
electrical outlet issues.
3.
3. Forecasting Skills, namely Progressions and Directions including Secondary, Solar Arc,
Return Charts, Transits, Eclipses and Lunations.
You should know how to explain all of these in written interpretations.
4. Synastry and relationships including chart comparison, Composites charts, family patterns,
miscellaneous relationships, and group dynamics.
All of this has been covered in your material.  Write about what “you know,” don’t waste time
worrying about what you don’t know!
10
EXPLANATION:
SECTION I (Of the Exam)
Section I comprises 275 questions that are divided between True/False and Multiple
Choice.  They are taken directly from the Section 1). 1. listed above
History of Astrology:  There aren't too many questions on History (see suggested book) but
there may be such questions such as...
The first Textbook of Astrology was written by (a name would be put in here for T/F) [Claudius
Ptolemy]
A question such as: Who or which culture listed constellations that correspond to the 12
months? [Hellenistic Culture]
Also included will be historical philosophical systems that blended with astrological principles
such as Hellenistic, Aristotolianism, Hermeticism.  This is not hugely important so don’t spend
much time with it.  You could put the following phrase into Google:  “Philosophical Systems as
applied to Astrology”
Basic understanding of various applications of Astrology:
This means knowing that astrology has various applications such as:
- moving the natal chart forward to any given time
- observing political, societal, weather and geophysical studies as in mundane
astrology   (No detailed questions asked in this regard.)
- medical application (No detailed questions asked in this regard.)
- horary, electional, events (No detailed questions asked in this regard.)
Basic astronomy as applied to Astrology.
The following are suggestions but not necessarily on the exam:
These terms and definitions have already been covered in your course material.
Question on LMT as it differs from time zones
Various definitions such as Sidereal Time, Ecliptic, and Cazimi, etc
A definition of the Vertex may be given asking T/F
Moon's Draconic Period
Draconic
Month
The Moon crosses the ecliptic going north and going south.  The time that
elapses between each conjunction with the North Lunar Node or Ascending
Node is called the Moon’s Draconic Period or Draconic Month.
Terms such as perigee and/or apogee
Planets that rise or set before or after the sun
Length of Retrograde periods for various planets
Occultation
Lunations and Eclipses
11
Calculation of the birth chart, secondary progressions, solar returns and solar arcs
The exam does not ask for a full calculation but there are a number of questions based on the
calculations which could only be answered if one actually knew the process.  These questions
might include:
1. For a calculated Sidereal Time of 13:12:10 what is the nearest MC?
2. For this MC what is the nearest ASC at 41N00 latitude?
3. When calculating UT or GMT how many minutes of time are equal to 1 degree of
geographical longitude?
4. A Solar Return chart is usually set up for what location?
5. A secondary progressed Moon moves an average of how fast per month?
6. Pisces is a sign of long ascension in southern latitudes.  (T/F)
Position of a retrograde planet in relationship to the Sun when in a retrograde position
1. An example would be Mercury.  When Mercury is retrograde it will make what
astronomers call an “inferior conjunction,” i.e. Mercury is lined up between the earth
and the Sun.  When Mars is retrograde it will oppose the Sun, i.e. the earth will line up
between Mars and the Sun.
A question or two based on understanding of Southern Latitude and Eastern Hemisphere charts.
1. This was covered in the early modules on calculations of a natal chart.
Houses being more equal or unequal near the equator or in northerly/southerly directions
1. This refers to the breakdown of all house systems except the “Equal House System” as
you approach the extreme northern or southern latitudes approaching 60 degrees of
latitude.  Even at 55 degrees of latitude the houses can get bunched together and
most house systems become non-functional.
Long and short Ascension signs
1. Pisces and Aries are signs of “short ascension” in northern latitudes, whereas Virgo
and Libra are signs of “long ascension” in northern latitudes.
House systems
1. You have a list of house systems with definitions.
Tools required when calculating a chart
1. Calculator (in the old days a “Table of logarithms”)
2. Table of Houses
3. Ephemeris
Symbolism (astrological)
This is a broad topic that is covered extensively.
Defining the various Elements might be given in either T/F framework or multiple choice.
In the M/C category, it will clearly indicate how well one understands the symbolism because
more than one answer may apply.
For instance, 4 definitions might be given for a South Node in Sagittarius.
One, two, three, or all may apply.
Descriptions might be given that pertains to a certain house definition which may be listed in a
multiple choice question.
Definition and meaning of lunations
Different types of eclipses and their seasons
Eclipse seasons and eclipses are covered in your material.
12
Computer skills
There would likely only be a couple of questions in this area that might ask how to determine if
the chart on the screen is correct according to time.  Anyone who uses a computer would not
have any trouble with these selections.
Familiarity with Ephemerides (Ephemeris) and various astrological tables
One could be asked to define the use of a Table of Houses or any of the other tools used in
calculating a chart.  Anybody who has calculated charts would not have any problem with any
of these questions.
SECTION II (of the Exam)
A. This section involves short answer questions explaining various terms or concepts such as
Intercepted Signs, a Solar Chart, Description of the Moon’s Nodes, etc.
A question may involve describing a given aspect between Chart A and Chart B in a
compatibility analysis.
1. You can use your computer to write your answer for such analysis.
Making a list of planetary standings
1. Planetary standings are Retrograde and Direct Times.
One may be asked to give a brief analysis of a chart that has no earth but is endowed with fire
and air.
1. This would be simple.  Fire and Air would be outgoing, but “no earth” would imply a
lack of grounding – unless planets fell in ‘earth houses,’ such as the 2nd , 6th and 10th.
This is also a social combination, full of energy.
One may be asked to define 3 effects of a Fixed Grand Square.
1. Your answer would depend upon the planets involved.  Obviously a Fixed Grand
Square is 1. Very resistant to change. 2. Resolute in standing one’s ground 3. Strong
but lacking flexibility or ability to adapt.
Give 3 possible effects of 12th house Saturn in a natal chart
Example:
1. Seriousness regarding spiritual pursuits
2. A genuine commitment to wanting to “save the world.”
3. Confusion regarding how to achieve objectives.
B.  The chart of a known personality is given.
Applicant will be asked to list the aspects indicating a particular known quality of that person.
All required information is given except the answer.
13
SECTION III
This is the Section of the exam where many marks are lost due to not thoroughly reading the
question and indicating precisely what is being asked.  Answers must be supported by planet
in sign, house, house(s) ruled, aspect patterns, dispositors, and such links throughout the chart.
A.  Natal Chart Questions
The chart is given. Questions only refer to specific parts of the chart.
B.  Synastry
Two charts are supplied from an actual case situation with no names or birth data.
Questions are based on ability to understand the dynamics of Synastry including suggestions on
how some of the issues could be handled or worked out.
There are 4 questions.
One question would pertain to an aspect or pattern in his chart concerning challenges he may
face in a relationship.
The next question pertains to an aspect or pattern in her chart concerning challenges she may
face in a relationship.
The next 2 questions pertain to the blending of the two charts/personalities and challenges
they face in their relationship.
C. SOLAR RETURN [You already know about Solar Return charts.]
Charts are supplied.  Due to the different approaches to setting these charts up, it is given in 2
formats on the exam.
Firstly, the two charts are shown separately on one sheet.
Secondly, a 2 wheel chart is presented showing the Solar Return on the inner wheel, and Natal
Chart on the outer wheel.
The Solar Return took place at the birth location in order to avoid the controversy about
location of a Solar Return chart. {To me this is not a ‘controversy,’ but go along with this.]
More on Solar Returns:
The essay question here pertains to interpreting the important issues for the year.
Use your computer to write your interpretations.
D.  SECONDARY PROGRESSION QUESTIONS
A 3 wheel chart is given with natal on the inside, secondary on 2nd wheel, and transits in the
3rd wheel.  [This is the Tri-wheel chart you are all familiar with.]
There are 12 questions involving the understanding of a secondary progression as pertaining to
this particular example.  The following questions would be typical:
- Determine the approximate date when a Progressed Moon reaches a certain aspect.
- Did any planet changed direction since birth, and how it may manifest in the life.
- What is the progressed lunation phase?
14
- List the planetary activity at time the chart was cast.
In writing your interpretations and essay portions of the exam, make sure you at least list in
parenthesis () your justification or “reasons” for your interpretation.  The written portions of
the exam take THE LONGEST AMOUNT of TIME!  So,  don’t waste time lingering over your
answers in T/F or multiple choice sections of the exam.
END