COAC Module 7 Lesson 3: Composite Chart Cases…
© www.nodoor.com
Important Facts About Composite Charts
 A Composite Chart is NOT an indicator of compatibility!
(Synastry is an indicator of compatibility.)
 A Composite Chart will NOT tell you how long a couple will
stay together.
 A Composite Chart “is” DESCRIPTIVE of the relationship.
 A Composite Chart shows the issues common to the
relationship.
 A Composite Chart suggests solutions to relationship pressures
and challenges.
“If a Composite Chart is not an indicator of
compatibility, then what is the best way to use a
Composite Chart when talking with couples?  Can
we use it to describe the issues that are typical for
the couple that is consulting you and then use it to
look for solutions?”
“You’re correct.  For example, in the first couple case that
follows what are some of the suggestions you might make in
dealing withsome of the hard aspects?”
~1~
Composite Chart of Couple # 1
What do you notice about this composite chart? Think about the
“themes” expressed in this chart.  How would expect these themes
to manifest in terms of both issues and probable circumstances?
What would you focus on in explaining the story of this couple as
represented in their composite?  How would you counsel this
couple?What solutions are suggested in terms of some of the more
challenging aspects?What about the Sun Moon square?  What
would you suggest?  What about the Mercury Saturn and Mercury
Pluto opposition?
~2~
Natal Charts of Composite Case 1
Wife of Case 1
~3~
Husband of Case 1
~4~
Composite Chart of Couple # 2
What do you notice about this composite chart? Think about the “themes”
expressed in this chart.  How would expect these themes to manifest in
terms of both issues and probable circumstances?  What would you focus on
in explaining the story of this couple as represented in their composite?
How would you counsel this couple?
~5~
Husband of Case 2
~6~
Wife of Couple # 2
~7~
Composite Chart of Couple # 3
~8~
What do you notice about this composite chart? Think about the
“themes” expressed in this chart.  How would expect these themes
to manifest in terms of both issues and probable circumstances?
What would you focus on in explaining the story of this couple as
represented in their composite?  How would you counsel this
couple?
Husband of Case 3
~9~
Wife of Case 3
~10~
Composite Test:
Write a report about this couple based upon the themes and issues
suggested in the Composite Chart as well as issues you see as relevant in
their natal charts.  Write this report as if you were addressing the couple
themselves.  Write like you were talking “with” them.
~11~