Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
COAC Module 4  Lesson 1:  Solar Arc Directions or progressions
© www.nodoor.com
Introduction
Solar Arc (SA) is another technique of prediction.  It is very simple to use.  Simply add the
progressed movement of the Sun to “everything in the natal chart,” and you’ll have the Solar
Arc Directions for the chart.
=    an average of 1 degree a year, though this will vary “slightly”
Progressed
from 57 minutes of arc to 1 degree and 2 minutes of arc depending upon the signs.  Due to
our slightly elliptical orbit around the Sun it moves it’s slowest through the signs of Gemini
and Cancer (summer solstice) and fastest through Sagittarius and Capricorn (winter solstice).
Over time this incremental difference adds up, and can equal nearly 1 degree by age twenty.
It is simple to adjust for these differences when doing your Solar Arc calculations by hand,
and nearly all “astrological software has a Solar Arc function.”
Suppose you want to calculate the Solar Arc positions for “Tian Wu” born June 15, 1980 at
8am in Beijing, China for 2012 at age thirty-two.  The GMT or UT would be Midnight or 00:00
June 15.  Counting ahead you would find the progressed Sun in your Ephemeris for the
corresponding date of July 17, 1980.  To find the movement of the Sun or “solar arc” simply
subtract the Sun on June 15, 1980 from the position of the Sun on July 17, 1980.
July 17, 1980
24⁰
33’ 49”  (remember one whole sign = 30 degrees)
(-)
June 15, 1980
24⁰
02’ 30”
2012 Solar Arc      30⁰       31’ 19”
Now add this increment of 30⁰ 31’ 19” to everything in the natal chart.  For example:
Natal MC 21⁰
29’ + 30⁰ 31’ 19” = Solar Arc MC 22⁰
00’ 19” (the seconds are not that important)
Natal ASC  4⁰
25’ + 30⁰ 31’ 19” = Solar Arc ASC  4⁰
56’
Natal
21⁰
05’ + 30⁰ 31’ 19” = Solar Arc
21⁰
36’
Continue to add this Solar Arc to the rest of the planets, then place the Solar Arc Positions in
the outer wheel of a bi-wheel.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
Consider the differences between Solar Arc and Secondary Progressions.  With Solar Arc the “integrity” of the
natal chart remains the same.  If you were born with the Sun opposite Neptune, like Tian Wu, then your Solar
Arc Directions will continue to show this same Sun opposition to Neptune.  Therefore you never compare
Solar Arc Directions to each other!  You only compare the aspects of Solar Arc Directions to the Natal Chart.
The number one priority with Solar Arc Directions are the aspects.  The change of houses has some meaning,
but not as much as with secondary progressions.  The change of signs means nothing, whereas it has some
meaning with secondary progressions.
Aspects with the Angles have priority, and the orb is 1 degree applying and 1 degree separating.  Therefore the
influence of a Solar Arc aspect is approximately two years.  With Solar Arc the outer planets move too, so you
get a lot of outer planet activity, unlike Secondary Progressions – where the outer planets can only be
triggered by aspects from the angles or personal planets, etc.
Also consider the difference between the Solar Arc Moon and a Secondary Progressed Moon, unlike the
Secondary Progressed Moon that moves an average of 1 degree a month, the Solar Arc Moon moves an
average of 1 degree a year.  Thus a Solar Arc Moon, like the rest of the Solar Arc directions, forms aspects that
last approximately two years.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
Here is a list of the Solar Arc aspects in effect on June 15, 2012 for Tian Wu, with a few notes:
SA MC
Natal square between MC and Moon triggered by sextile – “Think of what the Moon means.”
SA MC
Natal trine now square –  “Contact with the Nodes triggers life purpose themes.”
SA MC
Natal trine now “separating quincunx” – “Over last year and a half what might this suggest?”
SA MC
Natal quincunx now an opposition – “Radical changes in career and domestic life too”
SA
MC More MC Lunar contact!  Looks like an important year in terms of family and household!
SA
IC
MC
This aspect triggers both domestic and career life and shows serious responsibilities
SA
MC IC Another Neptune aspect, expressing the creative potential of the natal Neptune trine the MC
SA
ASC
DSC Increased expectations; encouraged to attempt more – expansive time in relationship life
SA
Natal conjunction triggered – feelings of love and affection plus “attraction” of heart’s desire
SA
Another Neptune and Lunar aspect, suggests complications, illness/healing, creative expressions
SA
Life purpose and direction stimulated.  He feels a greater urgency to take charge of his life in new ways
SA
He is faced with some decision about how to better manage family obligations and responsibilities
SA
Compelling desire to express ideas he is passionate about, or ideas that emerge from research
SA
This underscores a Moon Neptune theme regarding this complex phase of his life
Circumstances and Issues in Tian Wu’s life in 2012. Tian is shown
here reviewing a power point presentation before meeting with
government health-care officials.  Over the last year he and his new
company have developed a software program with applications that
could simplify access to patient records for hospitals and clinics
throughout China, benefiting both patient and physician and cutting
costs.  If he is able to secure a government contract his start-up company
will be on its way to fulfilling Tian’s vision of succeeding in a leadership
role while helping to make the world a better place.  When Tian was only
two years old his mother was diagnosed with Cancer, and was ill for
much of his early childhood, though she eventually recovered after
participating in a then “new” experimental program.  Tian grew-up with
his grandparents, (his father’s parents), and rarely saw his mother or his
father.  His dad worked long hours to pay for their many expenses.  Tian
graduated with a degree in computer science and went to work for a large IT company before taking a risk to start his
own company nearly three years ago.  He married in June 2011 and he and his wife have a 5 month old daughter born
July 12, 2012.  His daughter has had health complications that have required hospital visits and expensive medication.
His wife’s mother moved in with them to help his wife in caring for their daughter – who seems to be improving – but
still has special needs.  Last October of 2011 Tian and his new wife moved into a larger apartment, and the expenses
weigh heavy upon Tian – whose sole income from his fledgling company now supports them.
How do you see Tian’s life reflected in the Solar Arc aspects listed above?  What life-path themes are being played out?
What symbolizes the early environmental challenges of Tian’s childhood?  What personal growth challenges has Tian
had to face?  What are the various levels of motivation impacting him at this time, and what clues do the Solar Arc
trends provide?  What issues would you be prepared to discuss with him?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
Brief Solar Arc History for Steve Jobs, born Feb. 24, 1955 at 7:15 PM in San Francisco, California, USA
1 Apr 1976
Apple Computer Inc. is incorporated by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ron Wayne
Spring 1976
Steve and Woz start assembling Apple I computers in the Jobs' garage, and sell them to computer hobbyists,
including 50 for the Byte Shop
28 Aug 1976
Steve Jobs and Woz show off the Apple I at the Personal Computing Festival in Atlantic City, with help from
Dan Kottke
Jan 1977
Former Intel executive turned business angel Mike Markkula invests in Apple and hires former colleague Mike
Scott as CEO. Woz is forced to leave HP to join Apple full
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
1978
The Apple II becomes the first mass-market personal computer, with impressive sales around the US. Apple
becomes a symbol of the personal computing revolution
1978
Steve's ex-girlfriend Chris-Ann Brennan gives birth to their daughter Lisa. Steve refuses to acknowledge he is
the father
1978
At Apple, work starts on the Apple III and the Lisa, while Jef Raskin begins The Book of Macintosh
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 6
12 Dec 1980
Apple goes public, increasing Steve Jobs' net worth from dozens of millions of dollars to over $200 million
Early 1981
Jef Raskin is forced out of his Macintosh project as Steve Jobs takes over
25 Feb 1981
Black Wednesday: 50 Apple employees laid off by CEO Mike Scott without notice. The board asks him to leave
shortly afterwards. Mike Markkula becomes interim CEO
12 Aug 1981
IBM launches the IBM PC, the biggest threat to Apple's future yet
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 7
17 Sep 1985
Steve Jobs resigns from Apple and starts NeXT with five other refugees from Apple. Apple announces it will
sue NeXT
30 Jan 1986
Jobs buys the computer division of George Lucas' ILM for $10 million and incorporates it as Pixar
Aug 1986
Pixar unveils John Lasseter’s short film Luxo Jr. at SIGGRAPH. It is praised by the expert audience as one of the
first computer-animated work of art
1986
Steve's mother Clara dies. A couple months later, Steve discovers his biological mother Joanne and his sister,
novelist Mona Simpson. They will become close friends
1986: SA
7⁰
Step-Mom dies
Finds birth mother
Finds sister
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 8
Mar 1991
Steve Jobs fires almost half of Pixar’s staff and takes back all of the employees' stock in an effort to cut costs,
as the company is still in the red 5 years after its launch
18 Mar 1991
Steve Jobs marries Laurene Powell in Yosemite under the blessing of Steve's old zen guru Kobin Chino. Laurene
is already pregnant
May 1991
Pixar signs a deal with Disney to make a computer-animated feature film
Fall 1991
Laurene gives birth to Steve’s first son, Reed Paul Jobs