COAC MODULE Five Lesson 1: Return Charts
Additional techniques of prediction
© www.nodoor.com
All “return charts” are based upon the exact moment that
the Sun, Moon or planet returns to where it was at the time
of birth.Unlike secondary progressions, return charts are
calculated for the location the person is at on the day of
their “return”, rather than for the city of their birth – unless
of course they are in their birth city at the “return” moment.
Some astrologers use the birth place regardless, though
most do not. It is also possible to calculate return charts for
the planets.  However, the most common return charts are
Solar and Lunar Returns.Solar Returns are charts calculated
for the moment the Sun returns to its exact birth position,
by degree, minute and second.
Solar Return Charts – A chart for the exact time the Sun returns to its birth position.
Most astrology software programs will calculate a Solar Return chart for you, but you canalso
calculate the time that the Sun returns to its exact natal position using your Ephemeris, and
then calculate a chart based upon this new time and place.  The Sun will return at a different time each year,
and not always on the same day you were born!  Sometimes the Sun will return on the day before your
birthday and sometimes on the day after.  This is because the western calendar used in most of the world
differs from our zodiac calendar, and why zodiac signs sometimes begin on different dates. To calculate a
Solar Return chart by hand you’ll need the exact position of the natal Sun in degrees, minutes, and seconds
of zodiacal longitude.  Your Ephemeris lists the seconds for the Sun, so this is easy enough to do.  Likewise,
most Ephemerides will list the seconds for the Sun and Moon and decimals for the planets.  Kepler Software
also provides a list thatincludes the exact position of the Sun, as in this case for a male
born May 30, 1922 at 7:00 P.M. in Porterdale, Georgia, USA.
Sun  is 8 degrees Gemini 45 minutes and 21 seconds.  Notice that Kepler also lists the
seconds of the Moon and planets, which allows for return charts to be hand calculated
for the Moon and for the planets too, though the software does this instantly.
HAND CALCULATION:(Neither the COAC or ISAR EXAM requires this hand calculation.)
To calculate a solar return chart by hand simply find the 24 hour interval for the year in
question.  Then convert the difference between the natal Sun and the nearest midnight
Sun.  Convert this difference into time.  This will give you the exact time of a Solar
Return.  Then adjust this time for the time zone of the place and set up a chart for this
new month, day, year time and place.  Remember, the actual date of your Solar Return
may be the day before your birthday, the day of your birthday, or the day after.  Using your Ephemeris we
can easily calculate the time of a Solar Return for the Gemini male listed above; this is the first example we
will study.  Looking at your Ephemeris for May 1951, you see that the Sun listed at midnight on May 31 is
8⁰Gemini 45’ 02” – just 19” less than the natal Sun.  Thus the natal Sun will fall between May 31, 1951 at
midnight UT and June 1, 1951 at midnight UT.  In this 24 hour interval the Sun moves 57 ‘and 31” or
57.516666.’ We must also convert the 19” into a minute decimal, which is .316666.  To come up with right
multiplier we divide> .316666÷57.516666 = .0055056. Then multiply .0055056 X 24 hours, which = .1321344
X 60’ = 7.928064’ (.928064 X 60” = 55.68” or 57’), so the UT is 00:07:57.  A UT of 00:07:57 must be converted
to Zone 5 West for Atlanta, Georgia – the time zone for the place of the return.
UT is 5 hours ahead of Zone 5 West, so the Standard Time of the Solar Return would be 7:07:57 PM on May
30, 1951.  Let’s see if our calculations agree with the Kepler Software for this Solar Return Chart.  Our hand
calculation has come within 3 seconds of clock time to being exact!  Notice the time listed below is for
07:07:54 PM on May 30, 1951.  A difference of 3 seconds of clock time would not alter this chart at all.
N
SOLAR RETURN INTERPRETATION:
The Solar Return chart above is the chart of your COAC instructor’s father, Walter Railey, for a year that would prove
to be a pivotal year in the story of his life.  A Solar Return chart “symbolizes” the issues and probable circumstances
that are likely to be emphasized between one Solar Return and the next.  Thus the Solar Return above symbolizes the
period from May 30, 1951 to May 30, 1952.  First, a Solar Return chart should be considered “by itself” as a picture of
what is likely to be significant in the year in between birthdates.  Second, a Solar Return chart should be compared to
the natal chart as well.  However, it is important to initially identify the main features of a Solar Return before
comparing it to the natal chart.  A Solar Return chart can help to“clarify issues” and probable circumstances that are
likely to arise during the year in question, and may underscore the themes suggested by transits and progressions.
Many times a Solar Return chart allows the astrologer to better grasp what is really at stake in a person’s life; such
insight enables the astrologer to offer a better forecast interpretation.
Homework Exercise: Calculate Solar Returns for significant years in your own life, or in the lives of family and friends.
Consider how the symbolism of the Solar Return correlates with the themes and circumstances that occurred.
THE METHOD OF INTERPRETING A SOLAR RETURN:
The number one priority for a Solar Return chart is the house position of the SUN, and how the SUN is aspected!  Then
list the closest to exact aspects, looking for the “unique” qualities that stand out during the moment of this Solar
Return.  In the Solar Return chart for Walter Railey for 1951 the SUN is in the 7th house conjunct Mars, placing
significant emphasis upon his partnership life.  Mars is important because it is conjunct the Sun, and Mars is also
conjunct the DSC.  Mars means “action”
and amplifieswhat is likely to be an
eventful year relationship wise and
eventful in terms of Walter’s partner’s
life too.In the negative sense Mar’s
position implies a potentially frictional
or strife filled year, though in the
positive sense this might mean his
partner embarking on a new endeavor
– or new developments in his
relationship life.  The Sun is sextile
Jupiter, which implies opportunities,
and the Sun makes a waning semi-
sextile to Uranus – suggesting some
unexpected developments from its 8th
house position, perhaps an indicator of
unexpected or sudden access to
unusual resources of some kind or a
response to confrontation or
unanticipated “spiritual” crisis.
Remember, the waning semi-sextile
can have a spiritual or Pisces like quality to it.  The Sun is also widely square the MC and IC, implying that relationship
factors could impact home and career as well.  Among the close aspects in Walter’s Solar Return chart, the Moon’s
opposition to Neptune is at the top of the list.  Neptune always implies sensitive situations and issues.  Sometimes an
aspect like this can mean illness within family, especially important females in one’s life, i.e. mother or wife or even
daughter.  Overwhelming circumstances can temporarily flood one’s life and lead to disillusionment as well.  Of
course the nature of an “opposition” tends to play out in relationships (remember oppositions correspond to Libra),
and often with significant tensions.  The Moon also trines Pluto, adding intensity but suggests resiliency or
resourcefulness in dealing with crisis.  The Lunar Nodes are very close to the Meridian, with the South Node conjunct
the MC and the North Node conjunct the IC.  This angular nodal indicator implies significantly new developments in
terms of family with the North Node conjunct the IC and repercussions that would likely impact his career or
professional status as well with the “reaction” at the South Node on the MC.  Pisces is the sign of the IC and the North
Node, which resonates with Neptune and underscores the importance of the Moon Neptune opposition.  Mercury is
trine the MC and the South Node from the 6th House and is the associate planet of Virgo, implying that career or job
situations were likely to develop in a “supportive” response to any new family changes.  Sometimes this can mean
that a job may be more easily obtained and can help to improve or better secure circumstances.  Remember, the
South Node is about security, i.e. seeking familiar ways to secure one’s life.Considering these Solar Return indicators
what kind of questions would you be prepared to ask your client?  Talking with Walter Railey in 1951 you would learn
that he had been married for 6 years,with two children, and had nearly completed his college degree in architecture
by attending night school at Georgia Tech over the last 5 years while working as a draftsman for an architectural firm.
His wife is considering undergoing a new surgical procedure for epilepsy, a disorder she has had since age twelve.
A smaller image of the same Solar Return for May 30, 1951, from the previous page above
COMPARING the SOLAR RETURN to the NATAL CHART:
Walter Railey’s natal chart is in the inner wheel, with the Solar Return in the outer ring.  In comparing his Solar Return
to his natal chart one is immediately struck by how similar they are!  It is rare for the angles of a Solar Return to be
this close to the angles of a natal chart.  The Solar Return SUN may fall in the same house as in the natal chart on
average about 5 times in the course of a lifetime, but only rarely are the angles this close!  Whenever a Solar Return
chart repeats the natal Sun’s house position this is significant, but even more so when the angles of the chart are
repeated so closely!  Remember, the natal chart is always the most important chart, so when the stamp of the natal
chart is more closely duplicated by the Solar Return there is going to be a greater resonance
with the basic message of the natal chart.  Such a Solar Return can mark a pivotal year in a
person’s life. When comparing the Solar Return to the natal chart one can also readily spot
the major transits that are in effect.  Such a comparison also helps in better understanding
the Solar Return and allows for a “reinterpretation” of the transit as well.  For example,
consider the position of Uranus in the Solar Return.  In the Solar Return Uranus is in the 8th
house and is semi-sextile the Sun and square Jupiter, but otherwise not significantly
aspected.  However, upon comparison with the Natal Chart we see that Uranus is conjunct
natal Venus and Pluto, square the natal Lunar Nodes, and square natal Jupiter.  This makes
the position of Uranus obviously more significant in the Solar Return, since it is a major
outer planet transit at this time.  In the natal chart, Uranus is in Pisces conjunct the IC,
conjunct the North Node in Walter’s Solar Return.  Therefore the “Uranian” influence is
accentuated in his forecast, implying radical changes underway that could alter the status
quo of his relationship life.  The position of the Sun in the Solar Return already tells us that
his relationship life and or partner’s life is “emphasized” as a theme during this year of his
life. Consider how you would counsel Walter regarding his forecast.
What developed between May 30, 1951 and May 30, 1952?
In 1951 Walter’s wife Agnes read about a leading neurosurgeon in Atlanta that had reported success in arresting
epilepsy through “temporal lobe” brain surgery, depending upon the type of epilepsy diagnosed.  Agnes had not been
able to drive a car due to the fact that epileptic seizuresmade driving too dangerous.  Though under medication to
control her seizures, she still had spells of unconsciousness and feared she would endanger her children.  She would
later add, “I just wanted a normal life.  I wanted to be able to drive a car and take my kids with me like all the other
moms.”  Look at the natal chart of Agnes
Railey on the left.  Notice the nearly exact
opposition between Mercury and Pluto
with Mercury Rx in the 3rd house.
Epilepsy is a “neurological crisis” that
manifests as a seizure or convulsion,
which is consistent with the associations
of Mercury opposite Pluto.  The onset of
Agnes’ epilepsy had occurred with
puberty between ages 12 and 13,
suggesting a hormonal trigger.  With
Scorpio Rising aspects to Pluto are
accentuated, and the opposition with
Pluto is the closest aspect in her chart.
Following examination by the
neurosurgeon in 1951, Agnes was told she
was a candidate for this new procedure.
She was told that there was “very little
risk” with this operation, and that the
worst that might happen is that she
would remain the same and still have
epilepsy.  Walter was not initially
persuaded by his wife’s enthusiasm for
the procedure.  Unconvinced regarding
the safety of the operation, he visited the
neurosurgeon several times both with
and without his wife, until he reluctantly acquiesced to his wife’s desire to go ahead.  Agnes and her mother were
both optimistic regarding the procedure.  In late January 1952 Agnes had her first surgical procedure, which failed to
arrest her epilepsy, but without any side effects.  In March 1952 Agnes had her second surgical procedure, which
proved to be disastrous.  In the days following her surgery she was barely able to speak, unable to walk, and could
only move her upper body in jerky uncoordinated motions – plus she still had seizures.  The surgeon told Walter this
was only temporary and that she would improve.  However, in the weeks that followed she did not improve and the
surgeon abandoned her as a patient and refused Walter’s request for help, telling him that his wife’s symptoms “had
nothing to do with the surgery.” Faced with the shock of invalid wife, Walter asked his parents to continue to allow
his daughter to live with them and an aunt of his wife’s to care for his son.  To pay for medical expenses Walter was
forced to sell the house they had just finished building and never got to live in.  He hired a maid to care for his wife
during the day while he worked and then cared for her himself when home.  Then an opportunity arose in late April,
when Walter heard of a “free” experimental program underway in New York for brain and spinal injuries.  He
immediately applied for this program and Agnes was accepted.  They moved to New York City where Agnes would
undergo nearly 2 years of physical therapy at Belleview Hospital, while Walter worked as a draftsman for an
architectural firm.  Agnes regained the ability to speak, though her voice was changed, and to use her hands and arms,
but was never able to walk again.  In early 1954 they would return to Atlanta and gradually reunite with their children,
David first later in 1954 and his sister Kathy in 1956.  A maid assisted the family upon their return to Atlanta, and in
1957 Walter and Agnes won a landmark legal case against the neurosurgeon, following 3 years of legal battles. This
was the first neurosurgeon sued in the US, and during the trial it was discovered that he had experimented on scores
of other individuals – often poor or low-income individuals, leading to death or permanent disability.  The case made
local headlines between 1954 – 1957, partially for the high amount of money awarded, and paved the way for others
to pursue legal action against this neurosurgeon and others.  [Prior to 1957 very few doctors were sued in the US, and
in the Southern US doctors were as highly trusted as ministers.]  The surgeon had his medical license temporarily
revoked.  In the trial it was eventually uncovered that the neurosurgeon had not followed correct medical and
surgical standards or procedures during Agnes’ neurosurgery, and was found to be willfully negligent.
The chart on the left is the Solar Return in
effect for Agnes between December 1951
and December 1952.  At first this Solar
Return is not as dramatic or obvious a
picture of what transpired. However,
further investigation uncovers significant
indicators.  By itself, the Solar Return shows
the closest aspect to the Sun as a
conjunction to the DSC, i.e. opposite the
ASC.  The DSC conjunction does underscore
an important year in terms of her married
life, and the fact that the Sun is “angular”
increases its significance, but otherwise the
Sun is only widely aspected by a trine to
Pluto and a sextile to Neptune – not strong
indicators.  In terms of the angles, the other
close aspect is the Moon in Virgo conjunct
the IC, implying significant domestic events,
such as the possibility of moving – which did
occur, though not as had been planned.  The
most disruptive aspects of the Solar Return
are Mars and Saturn in the 4th house
squaring Uranus in the 1st house, which
suggests some unexpected developments
regarding home and family, but not on the
magnitude of what was experienced,
considering that all Solar Return charts on December 19, 1951 would have this Mars Saturn square to Uranus – though
in different houses.  It is only when you compare this Solar Return chart to the natal chart that you begin to see the
significance of the year that follows. Notice where the Solar Return ASC of 28 degrees Gemini falls in the natal chart, it
falls in the 8th house but more importantly the “empty leg of the T-Square” between the Sun, Moon and Mars in the
natal chart!  In addition, notice where Uranus falls when compared to the natal chart.  Uranus is conjunct natal Pluto
and opposite natal Mercury, a more obvious suggestion of “experimental” procedures that could impact the very
aspect in her natal chart that implies the neurological disorder she had!  Now the Solar Return position of Mars and
Saturn also takes on added significance, as Mars and Saturn are square the natal Mercury Pluto opposition.  This is a
good example of how important it is to compare the Solar Return chart back to the natal chart.  By the time Agnes
had her operations “Mars” was no longer at 14 degrees of Libra, even though she was still getting Uranus and Saturn
transiting her Mercury Pluto opposition.  Hence, each Solar Return acts as a kind of “imprint,” in that it occurs when
the Sun realigns with our “birth moment.”  So it is that Mars in the Solar Return takes on “added meaning” and
significance.  A Solar Return allows you to further “frame the context” of a transit as well.  In transiting Agnes’ natal
Pluto Mercury opposition, Uranus was conjunct Pluto – the ruler of her ASC, i.e. her “physical body.”  In her Solar
return Uranus falls in her 1st house, again the house of her “body” or anatomy.
However in looking at the Solar Return charts of the children of Agnes and Walter, David and Kathy, for the same year,
you will see more dramatic evidence of how Solar Return Charts can underscore important trends. Likewise, when
you have the charts of everyone in an immediate family, you can look for themes that repeat and improve your ability
to forecast and counsel your clients.  Observe the Solar Return Charts that follow.  What themes do you see repeated?
Hint: look back at the Solar Return Chart of Walter Railey – what themes are repeated?