1
COAC Module 9 Lesson 1:
Glossary  Terms for ISAR Competency and  COAC Exam
© www.nodoor.com
1. The Gregorian Calendar – This is the western calendar in use today in much of
the world that begins at 00:00 hours January 1.  It is named for Pope Gregory XIII,
who gathered many learned men for 5 years to make this calendar, launched in
1582.
2. Local Mean Time – Average or “mean” time at even given location on the earth
based upon the movement of the Sun relative the meridian of that locale; an
average of the Sun’s movement – similar to a Sundial.  Used worldwide prior to
November 18, 1883.
3. Greenwich Mean Time – The time at 0 degrees longitude West, called
Greenwich due to the map designs that put 0 degrees running through the
Greenwich Observatory in Greenwich, England.  It is abbreviated as GMT and is
the equivalent of UT or Universal Time.
4. Logarithms in Calculations – Tables devised for trigonometry, allowing for the
simple use of addition and subtraction rather than multiplication and division
when calculating the movement or arc of direction of any moving body, such as a
planet.
5. Hellenistic Astrology – The astrology prevalent in the Classical World following
the conquests of Alexander the Great, i.e. during the Hellenistic Period of history
after 323 BC.  Hellenistic astrology represents the beginning of Western Astrology
in terms of form and basic principles. However Hellenistic astrology did not
emerge as a recognizable system of horoscopic astrology until the 1st century BC
though it was practiced until approximately the 7th Century AD.  Readers can
explore Chris Brennan’s website on Hellenistic Astrology:
http://www.hellenisticastrology.com/
2
6. Planet out-of-bounds – When the Moon or any planet is in a declination
outside of or beyond the line of 23 degrees North 27 minutes declination or 23
degrees South 27 minutes declination it is considered “out of bounds” as it is
outside of the maximum Solar Declination reached at either
Solstice.http://www.forrestastrology.com/general-astrology/the-out-of-bounds-
moon
7. Apogee & Perigee – Apogee means farthest away in orbit from the Earth;
Perigee means closest in orbit to the Earth.
8. Adjusted Calculation Date – This is the Date that allows you to know “when”
the positions listed in your Ephemeris are “exact” when calculating Secondary
Progressions.  Abbreviated as the ACD, here is the formula:
To determine the precisepositions of the secondary progressions you have to find what is called the ACD, or
Adjusted Calculated Date.
To find the ACD you must know the GMT or UT of the person in question.  For our example, let’s use the birth
chart of Brad Pitt, born December 18, 1963 at 6:31am in Shawnee, Oklahoma, USA.
1). Brad’s birth time is 6:31am CST (Zone 6 West), thus his GMT or UT is 12:31pm
2). Find the number of hours from the UT or GMT to the following midnight.  The number of hours to the
following midnight is 11hours and 29minutes.
3). Whatever the number of hours, add this to the Sidereal Time listed in your Ephemeris at midnight on the
date of birth.
Use a midnight Ephemeris. (All of you have a Midnight Ephemeris)
December 18, 1963, Sid. Time:
05:43:33
+
11:29:00
17:12:33
4). Using your Ephemeris for the year 1963 count forward if the GMT or UT is PM, or backwards if the GMT or UT
is AM, and find the date in your Ephemeris that is closest to the Sid: Time of 17:12:33.  You will find that this
date is June 10.
5). June 10 is your ACD or Adjusted Calculated Date.  This means that all of the positions listed in your Ephemeris
for 1963 will correspond to June 10 of the year in question.
6). For example, if you count in your Ephemeris from December 18, 1963 to December 19, 1963, then the
positions listed in the Ephemeris for December 19, 1963 correspond to the actual date of June 10, 1964.
9. Vertex – The intersection of the Prime Vertical with the Ecliptic in the West.
3
10. Signs of Short and Long Ascension – Signs of the Zodiac that rise or ascend
faster or slower on the Ascendant depending upon the latitude of the place. Virgo
and Libra are signs of long ascension in Northern Latitudes, while Pisces and Aries
are signs of short ascension in Northern Latitudes.  The reverse is true for
Southern Latitudes.
11. Declination – A measurement north or south of the Celestial Equator.
12. Planetary Patterns– Specifically refers to pattern formations in a natal chart
(excluding the Lunar Nodes, Chiron, Ceres, Eris and the asteroids) that was
invented by the astrologer Marc Edmond Jones.  These planetary patterns are:
See Saw – planets on opposite sides of chart, with vacant areas of 60 to 90
degrees.
Bowl – all planets within 180 degrees, leaving the other half empty.
Bucket – all planets with 180 degrees except “one” planet (singleton planet).
Splash – planets scattered around the wheel with no significant gaps.
Bundle – all planets concentrated within 120 degrees.
Locomotive – all planets within 240 degrees, the remaining 120 is empty.
Splay – distinct or sharp groupings of planets irregularly placed in the wheel.
4

Seesaw : In this pattern the planets form two groups on opposite sides of the chart, the groups
no less than sixty degrees or two signs apart. As its name suggests, this produces a person who
behaves like a 'seesaw', with their life following a pattern of two distinctly contrasting
alternatives. The person can find it difficult to integrate these two sharply different parts of their
life, which are often in competition with each other. However, success produces the increased
sophistication and polished, knowing demeanor of a person who is able to deal with most of
life's situations.

Bowl : In this pattern the planets are grouped into a 'bowl' of one hemisphere of 180 degrees,
or the equivalent of six zodiac signs. The pattern will have particular force if all the planets are
contained within one hemisphere. A person with this pattern will be self-contained, and go in
search of enterprises that are meaningful, fulfilling and personally relevant. They tend to have a
ministerial quality that seeks the right kind of career or vocation that will produce the greatest
benefit for themselves and others.

Bucket : This pattern is similar to the bowl except that one of the planets is in the opposite
hemisphere to all the others. This lone planet, or Singleton, serves as a handle, thus creating a
'bucket' form. In the bucket pattern is indicated a desire to become associated with activity in
the mainstream of society, so that the person feels they belong. However, what this often
means is that the person expects the world to discover their own unique talents, rather than
them trying to fit in. They will usually direct their efforts to a single purpose, and strive to
achieve objectives rather than act solely for their own self-preservation. The person will
probably behave according to the nature of the Singleton planet that forms the handle of the
pattern. This planet will exercise a greater influence than normal in the chart, and will be an
important part of the dynamic of the person's activities and basic energy.

Splash : As its name suggests this pattern, or rather lack of pattern, occurs when the planets are
randomly distributed around the chart in a 'splash'. A person with this pattern will have
diversification as their number one asset, with a universal and enriching mental outlook on life.
The person will be eager to share their life and resources as universally as possible, wherever
the need is greatest. However, as with the splay pattern, there is a danger of the person
scattering their energy unproductively.

Bundle : In this pattern the planets are grouped together so that they form a 'bundle' within the
space of 120 degrees, or the equivalent of four signs of the zodiac. This intense concentration of
planets produces a person who is equally intense and unrelenting in pursuit of personal
interests. Perspective and understanding of others is limited, and it is difficult for this person to
share their lives with anyone. The best course of life for such a person is to enter into
enterprises that require deep concentration, persistence and commitment, or to specialize in
one area of expertise.

Locomotive : This pattern is produced when all the planets are contained within 240 degrees or
nine signs of the zodiac, so that a whole 120 degrees is completely unoccupied. The planet that
rises clockwise following the empty space will significantly influence the life of the person with
this pattern, no matter what is indicated by the sun sign. It will act as the 'locomotive' of the
natal chart, driving the individual to achieve goals through determined and unrelenting effort,
with an exceptional drive and fund of energy at their disposal. Such a person will often be a
loner, waiting for the public to discover the truth of what they have been saying all along.

Splay : This type of natal chart is noteworthy because of the presence of at least two, but usually
three pairs (or conjunctions) of planets randomly distributed in a 'splay' shape around the chart.
A person with this pattern will have enormous talent and potential that needs deliberate
attention to be developed into worthwhile skills. The person will be an individualist, with no
desire for a regimented or highly organized way of life, and they will seek to avoid becoming
trapped in routine. However, there is often the difficulty that there is a lack of relevance
between the different skill sets, so that the person may not derive the full benefit from them.
Such a person needs to concentrate on 'getting their act together'.
5
13. Sidereal Time – Sometimes called ‘star time,’ it is a system of measuring the
amount of time that has elapsed between the exact alignment with a particular
star at any point on the globe and when that some point will again align exactly
again.  This is due to the Earth’s rotation on its axis and the elapsed time will
depend upon the latitude position on the globe.
14. Ascending & Descending Signs– The zodiac sign rising in the east at the point
of sunrise is said to be “ascending” and the zodiac sign setting in the west at the
point of sunset is said to be “descending.”  These signs will always be exactly
opposite each other, and are abbreviated as ASC and DSC.
15. Fruitful Signs – The water signs: Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are called fruitful.
16. Zenith – The point directly overhead, opposite the Nadir – or the point
directly below. (Not to be confused with the MC or Mid-heaven!)
17. Planetary Cycles – All planets have cycles, or the length of time it takes a
planet to cycle through the zodiac, such as 84 years for Uranus or 248 years for
Pluto.  Planetary cycles can also be measured from one conjunction to the next
with each other.  For example, the Sun and Mars last made a conjunction on
January 31, 2011 at 11 degrees of Aquarius; the next conjunction between the
Sun and Mars is on April 18, 2013 at 28 degrees of Aries.  Thus the Sun – Mars
cycle lasts 2 years and 2.6 months.  The opposition between the Sun and Mars
always occurs during the Retrograde of Mars, this time March 4, 2012 at 13
degrees of Pisces and Virgo.  You can think of this opposition as being the
beginning of the full phase, like the full Moon, of this Sun – Mars cycle.
18. Planetary Ingresses– The exact moment that the Sun, Moon or planet enters
a sign of the zodiac.
19. Parallel of Declination–Moon, Sun, or planet sharing the same degree of
Declination  when both are north or south, with an orb of no more than 1 degree.
20. Contra-Parallel of Declination– Moon, Sun, or planet opposite in declination.
21. Meaning of Retrogrades – In a natal chart a retrograde implies a tendency for
the energy or expression of the planet involved to be more internalized and less
externalized in expression, especially when the planets Mercury, Venus or Mars
are retrograde in a natal chart.
6
22. Periods of Planetary Retrogrades - By transit, a retrograde planet shows a
concentrated area of energy or emphasis that one must deal with for an extended
period of time, often repeating or going back over an area of concern or of similar
issues.  Mars retrogrades the least of the planets that retrograde, just once nearly
every 2 years.  The outer planets Uranus, Neptune and Pluto are retrograde
nearly half the time.
23.  Major and Minor Aspects
The major aspects are:
0⁰
conjunction
60 ⁰
sextile
90⁰
square
120⁰
trine
180⁰
opposition
The minor aspects are:
30⁰semi-sextile
45°semi-square
quintile72°
135°sesquiquadrate
144° biquintile
150⁰ quincunx
Other minor aspects are simply further divisions of 360 degrees with associate categories of
aspects. These are rarely used:
Septile 51.428571°, or approximately 51°25'43, or 360 ÷ 7
Biseptile 102.857143 ° or approximately 102°51'26”
Triseptile 154.285714° or approximately 154°17'09"
Novile 40° 360 ÷ 9 = 40⁰
Binovile 80°
Quadnovile, also known as a quadrinovile, is an angle of 160°
Decile 36⁰ 360 ÷10 = 36⁰, tridecile 108⁰, vigintile 18⁰
There are other minor aspects but almost any division of 360 can be an aspect.
24. Calculated Sidereal Time – The exact Sidereal Time at birth, converted from
Local Mean Time, which was originally Standard Time.
7
25. Occultation – From the work “occult” meaning “hidden,” occultation
specifically refers to the phenomena of when the Moon occults or hides a planet.
26. Moon Void of Course – the position of the Moon following the last Ptolemaic
aspect it makes in a zodiac sign before entering the next zodiac sign.
27. Dispositors – The planet associated with the sign of any planet or of the sun
and moon, i.e. the Sun in Aries is disposited by Mars.  A “final dispositor” would
be a planet in its own sign.  If Mars was in Sagittarius and Jupiter was in
Sagittarius, then Jupiter would be the final dispositor.
28. Peregrine - Foreign, alien. Said of a planet posited in a sign where it possesses
no essential dignity: where it is neither dignified nor debilitated. It is employed in
Horary Astrology, where it is usually reckoned as a debility. In a question of a
theft, a peregrine planet in an angle or in the 2nd House is the thief. However, no
planet is reckoned peregrine if it be in mutual reception with another.
29. Negative & Positive Signs, Negative & Positive Signs – Earth and Water signs
are negative, while Fire and Air signs are positive.
30. Morning and Evening Stars – said of a planet, usually Venus, though
occasionally Mercury, when rising ahead of the Sun prior to sunrise it is a Morning
Star and when visible in the west following sunset it is an Evening Star.
31. Major Planetary Conjunctions – Usually involve planet conjunctions from
Jupiter on out, such as the famed 20 year conjunctions cycle of Jupiter and Saturn.
32. Antiscion – Sometimes called the Solstice Point or antiscia. It refers to the
point in Declination where any degree of the “natural zodiac” is parallel in
declination.  The Antiscion or solstice point of any degree can be found with the
following formula:
To find the Antiscion Point or Solstice Point of the Sun in your chart, for example,
you would subtract the degrees in longitude of the Sun from 30 degrees and
finding the corresponding sign from this list:
Gemini-Cancer
Leo-Taurus
Virgo-Aries
Libra-Pisces
Scorpio-Aquarius
Sagittarius-Capricorn
8
If your Sun's position is 25 degrees Virgo 21 minutes, you would find the Antiscia
of your Sun by subtracting 25 degrees 21 minutes from 30 degrees (or 29 degrees
60 minutes) to arrive at 4 degrees 39 minutes. From the list above, you see that
the Antiscia of the sign Virgo is always Aries. Therefore the antiscia of your Sun is
4 degrees Aries 39 minutes.
If your Moon's natal position is 28 Pisces 25, you would find the Antiscion point by
subtract this degree from 30 degrees, to arrive at 1 degree 35. The Antiscia of the
sign Pisces is always Libra, so your antiscia of your Moon is 1 Libra 35.
33. Phases of the Moon – a division of the Moon’s cycle into 4, 8 or 12 phases.
34. Moon Speed Variation – the Moon’s movement through the zodiac varies
between 11 and 15 degrees per day, with the average around 13.2 degrees in a 24
hour period.
35. Critical Degrees - Classic critical degrees: are 0, 13, and 26 degrees of the
cardinal signs (Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn); 8-9 and 21-22 degrees of fixed
signs (Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius); and 4 and 17 degrees of mutable signs
(Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces). These are considered sensitive, and
sometimes strengthening, points. If a natal planet is found in a critical degree,
that planet is emphasized and assumes more power in the life of the native due to
its placement.  (I have found no correlation with these critical degrees.DR)
Some astrologers also consider 0 and 29 degrees of any sign critical degrees as
well. The 0 and 29 degrees are more crisis-oriented points, especially in predictive
work. If a natal planet is found at 29 degrees of any sign this is also known as the
Anaretic degree.(“I have found no correlation with either 0 or 29 degrees of any
sign.” DR)
36. House Cusp Systems – There are many house cusp systems, or House Systems;
the main house systems simply employ a mathematical debate regarding how to
trisect the diurnal arc, i.e. the arc between the ASC and the MC.
Main House Systems:
Placidus This is the most commonly used house system in modern Western astrology. The paths drawn for each
degree of the ecliptic to move from the nadir to the horizon, and from the horizon to the Midheaven are trisected
to determine the cusps of houses 2, 3, 11, and 12.
Koch A rather more complicated version of the Placidus system, built on equal increments of Right Ascension for
each quadrant. The Koch system was developed by the German astrologer Walter Koch (1895–1970) and is defined
only for latitudes between 66°N and 66°S. This system is popular among research astrologers in the U.S. and
among German speakers.
Equal House the houses are measured out in 30 degree increments starting from the degree of the ascendant
9
Whole Sign the houses are 30° each. The ascendant designates the rising sign, and the first house begins at zero
degrees of the zodiac sign in which the ascendant falls, regardless of how early or late in that sign the ascendant is.
Campanus The prime vertical (the great circle taking in the zenith and east point on the horizon) is divided into
twelve and these divisions are projected on to the ecliptic along great circles that take in the north and south
points on the horizon. It is attributed to Campanus of Novara but the method is known to have been used before
his time.
Porphyry Each quadrant of the ecliptic is divided into three equal parts between the four angles. This is the
oldest system of quadrant style house division. Although it is attributed to Porphyry of Tyros, this system was first
described by the 2nd century astrologer Vettius Valens, in the 3rd book of his astrological compendium known as
The Anthology.
Alchabitius The predecessor system to Placidus which largely replaced the Porphyry, the difference with
Placidus is that the time that it takes the ascendant to reach the meridian is divided equally into three parts. The
Alchabitius house system was very popular in Europe before the introduction of the Regiomontanus system.
Alchabitius (or Alcabitius), was a 10th century Arabianastrologer (died 967).
Regiomontanus The celestial equator is divided into twelve, and these divisions are projected on to the ecliptic
along great circles that take in the north and south points on the horizon – named after the German astronomer
and astrologer Johann Müller of Königsberg. The Regiomontanus system was later largely replaced by the Placidus
system.
Meridian Similar to Regiomontanus, except that the east point is taken as the ascendant.
Topocentric This is a recent system, invented in Argentina, that its creators claim has been determined
empirically, i.e. by observing events in people's lives and assessing the geometry of a house system that would fit.
The house cusps are always within a degree of those given in the Placidus system.
Neo-Porphyry The Neo-Porphyry system of house division is similar to Porphyry houses except that instead of
each quadrant being divided into three equal sized houses, the middle house in each quadrant is compressed or
expanded based on the whether the quadrant covers less than or greater than 90 degrees.
Krusinski A recently published (1995) house system, based on a great circle passing through the ascendant and
zenith. This circle is divided into 12 equal parts (1st cusp is ascendant, 10th cusp is zenith), then the resulting
points are projected to the ecliptic through meridian circles.
37. Revolution of each planet – the orbital revolution of each planet around the
Sun.  Such as 84 years for Uranus.
38. Ecliptic – the apparent path of the Sun across the sky every year.  In fact, the
ecliptic is the orbital plane of the earth around the sun.
39. Celestial Sphere – the area of the sky around our globe as viewed from the
earth, i.e. a geocentric view of the heavens.
40. Applying & Separating Aspects – applying refers to the degrees and minutes
prior to an aspect being exact, and separating refers to the minutes and degrees
of an aspect after it is exact.
41. Cazimi - also spelled Casimi, and sometimes called Zaminium) is an Arabic word meaning
"heart of the Sun" or "in the heart of the Sun." It is an astrological term meaning a planet that is
in exact conjunction with or very near the precise center of the solar disc. A planet that forms a
conjunction with the Sun within 17' (arc minutes) of partile (exactitude) is said to be Cazimi,
literally engulfed and fortified by Sol and, as it also may be interpreted, "in the heart of the
10
Sun." According to a psychological approach to astrology the Sun, representing the Ego, engulfs
the energies of the planet in Cazimi and is said to imbue it with the intensely positive and life-
giving energy and power of the Sun.
42. Dwadashamsa – a Sanskrit word referring to 1/12 of a sign = 2⁰ 30’.
43. Decanates - Decanates are another technique that can be employed to delineate the
finer points of an individual’s character. The use of Decanates is not an absolute must when
delineating a chart. However, they are quite useful when you want to pick out the subtleties in
an individual’s chart. In the beginning you may want to apply the use of Decanates to the Sun,
Moon, and Ascendant because these three factors are so important regarding the total make-
up of the person. Later on you may apply them to the other planets as well if you wish.
Sign
Decanate
0 degrees to
9 degrees 59"
Decanate
10 degrees to
19 degrees 59"
Decanate
20 degrees to
29 degrees 59"
Aries
Aries
Leo
Sagittarius
Taurus
Taurus
Virgo
Capricorn
Gemini
Gemini
Libra
Aquarius
Cancer
Cancer
Scorpio
Pisces
Leo
Leo
Sagittarius
Aries
Virgo
Virgo
Capricorn
Taurus
Libra
Libra
Aquarius
Gemini
Scorpio
Scorpio
Pisces
Cancer
Sagittarius
Sagittarius
Aries
Leo
Capricorn
Capricorn
Taurus
Virgo
Aquarius
Aquarius
Gemini
Libra
Pisces
Pisces
Cancer
Scorpio
Example: The Sun at 18 degrees Virgo 25" is in the decanate of Capricorn.
44. Solstices - 0⁰ Cancer and 0⁰ Capricorn.  The farthest north and south the Sun
appears to move each year.
45. Houses of Triplicities – houses that share the same element, i.e. the earth
houses are the 2nd, 6th and 10th, etc.
46. Interceptions – signs of the zodiac in a chart that do not fall on a house cusp.
47. Formula for Fortuna – also called the Part of Fortune:
11
ASC + Moon – Sun = Part of Fortune
4⁰    9 sign 4 degrees
+ ASC 27⁰
9 sign 27 degrees
18 sign 31 degrees
-
20⁰   7 sign 20 degrees
11 sign  11 degrees
11⁰
According to Classical Astrology the formula for the Part of Fortune is different for
a nocturnal chart than for a diurnal chart; it is ASC + Sun (-) Moon.
48. Primal Triad -  your basic astrological initials, i.e. your Sun (Will), your Moon
(Emotions), and your Ascendant ASC (Outer Personality).
49. Return Charts – Charts calculated for the exact time and place that one’s Sun
(Solar Return Chart), Moon or other natal planets, such as Mercury, Venus and
Mars, return to the exact degree, minute and second of zodiacal longitude at birth.
50. Solar Arc Progression – The minutes or degree and minutes of the progressed
Sun added to everything in the natal chart.
51. Primary Directions – Every 4 minutes following birth is equal to 1 year of the
life.  Extremely precise birth time is required!
52. Eclipse Seasons – The only times during a year eclipses can occur, due to the 5°
inclination of the moon's orbit. Each season lasts for approximately 33 days and
repeats just short of six months, thus there are always two full eclipse seasons
each year. 2 to 3 eclipses always occur each eclipse season. During the season the
inclination of the moon is low, hence the Sun, Moon and Earth become close
enough in alignment for an eclipse to occur.
53. Secondary Progressed Moon – The progressed Moon when using Secondary
Progressions, or The Day for A Year system of progressions.  The progressed
Moon moves an average of just over 1 degree per month – though this can vary.
12
54. Composite Chart – A chart based upon the midpoints between 2 natal charts.
The composite chart is said to thus “symbolize” the relationship of the couple
itself.
55. Synastry – Comparison charts of two natal charts, one has the natal chart in
the center wheel with the other natal chart in the outer wheel and then this is
reversed.
56. Kinds of relationship charts:
a. Davidson Chart – based upon the mid-dates, times and places of birth for 2
people.
b. Composite Chart – based upon mid-points between two natal charts.
c. Synastry Charts – comparison of both natal charts with each other in 2 wheels.
57. Planets in Relationship Charts – symbolize the nature of the relationship itself
in either composite or Davidson charts, and show interaction in Synastry.
58. Moon Increasing or Decreasing in Light – Said of the Moon when waxing it is
increasing in light and when waning it is decreasing in light.
59. Azimuth  - the line of the horizon perpendicular to the Zenith of the observer,
the Zenith being the point immediately overhead.  The azimuth is measured by
degrees.
60. Solar Chart – A chart that places the Sun exactly on the ASC and then numbers
the house cups accordingly by degree.  A solar chart is often used when the birth
time is unknown, and approximates sunrise – though latitude and longitude are
13
not usually taken into account unless a “sunrise chart” is being calculated for the
place of birth.
61. Moon’s Nodes – Two points (or ‘nodes’ from the Latin for knot) of
intersection where the Moon’s orbit around the Earth crosses the larger orbit of
the Earth around the Sun (the ecliptic).  The North Node, which astronomers call
the Ascending Node, corresponds to the point where the Moon crosses the
ecliptic going “above” 0 degrees of zodiacal latitude, and the South Node, which
astronomers call the Descending Node, corresponds to the point where the Moon
crosses the ecliptic going “below” 0 degrees of zodiacal latitude.
62. Planetary Stations – The place where a planet either goes Retrograde or goes
Direct.
63. Heliocentric Zodiac – places the Sun at the center.  The Earth is then in the
opposite Sign of the Sun, i.e. when the Sun is in Aries the Earth is in Libra.  In
Heliocentric astrology the Earth’s Moon is not usually considered.  Likewise, none
of the planets retrograde, and Mercury moves through the zodiac in 88 days.
64. Planetary Standings –The instances when the planetary movement seems to
change direction are called standings, during Stationary Retrograde and Direct
times.
65. Diurnal & Nocturnal positions – Diurnal means “daytime” and nocturnal
means “night time.”  The Sun Moon and planets were classically considered
differently by sign if they were in a daytime chart versus a night time chart in
Classical Astrology.
Diurnal planets were considered more comfortable and powerful when they
appear in charts in which the Sun is above the horizon. They include:

Sun

Jupiter

Saturn
Nocturnal planets are more comfortable and powerful when they appear in charts
in which the Sun is below the horizon, or at night. They are:

Moon

Venus
14

Mars
Mercury was considered neutral and given no nocturnal or diurnal attributes.
66. Benefic & Malefic – Benefic was considered “good” and “malefic” meant bad,
and was said about the Sun, Moon, or planets by sign, house and or aspect, etc.
67. Arabian Parts – Called “Arabian parts” because they were used by the Islamic
Culture that inherited the knowledge of the Classical Greek-Roman world.
However, these “parts” were used by Roman astrologers extensively and the use
of them appears to even predate Hellenistic astrology.  The most well known
“part” is the “Part of Fortune,”but there were many other parts.  All of the parts
relate to the position of the Sun, Moon or planets relative to the horizon.  For
example, the position of the Part of Fortune is also an index to the phase of the
Moon.  There are also 2 different formulas for the part of fortune, one is modern
the other is ancient.
15
The two formulas for Part of Fortune are: Day Births: Fortune = Ascendant + Moon –
Sun, Night Births: Fortune = Ascendant + Sun - Moon
16
68. Various Coordinate Systems – Astrologers and astronomers use both the
same and different coordinate systems for dividing up the celestial sphere, both
use declination and both use the Ecliptic and Meridian.
17
69. An Electional Chart – A chart set up for the “best date and time possible” for
an event, such as a party, and interview, a wedding, etc.
70. Ephemeris – A book of astrological and astronomical tables that lists the
positions of the Sun, Moon, Planets, nodes and other celestial phenomena.
71. Table of Houses – A book that lists the degrees and minutes of the signs of the
zodiac relative to a geographic location and time, and is used to locate the MC,
ASC and house cusps for an astrological chart.
72. Galactic Center – the point in the Zodiac around which our Milky Way Galaxy
is turning, which lines up with the Tropical Zodiac at approximately 26 degrees
plus of Sagittarius.
73. Geocentric – Earth centered.  The point of view from living on the Earth
74. Inferior & Superior Planets -Terms "inferior planet" and "superior planet"
were originally used in the geocentriccosmology of Claudius Ptolemy to
differentiate as 'inferior' those planets (Mercury and Venus) that never strayed
far from the Sun, compared to the 'superior' planets (Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn)
that did. In the 16th century, the terms were modified by Copernicus, who
rejected Ptolemy's geocentric model, to distinguish a planet's orbit's size in
relation to the Earth's.
 "Inferior planet" is used in reference to Mercury and Venus, which are
closer to the Sun than the Earth is.
 "Superior planet" is used in reference to Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus,
Neptune, which are farther from the Sun than the Earth is.
These terms should not be confused with “inferior” or “superior” conjunctions;
which is an astronomical term applied to the positions of Mercury and Venus.
When Mercury is between the Earth and Sun it is said to be in an “inferior
conjunction” and when it is on the opposite side of the Sun from the Earth it is
said be in a “superior conjunction.”  The same is true of Venus.  These “inferior
conjunctions” always occur during the retrograde period of Mercury and Venus
and are listed in the aspectarian of your Ephemeris as a conjunction between the
Sun and Mercury, or Sun and Venus.
18
75. Imum Coeli – Also abbreviated as IC, means middle of the night and refers to
the midnight position of the Sun - Local Mean Time.
76. Medium Coeli - Also abbreviated as MC, means middle of the day or true
noon and refers to Noon – Local Mean Time.
77. Lunation - Phases of the Moon, or “lunation cycle.”
78. Mutual Reception – When the Sun, Moon or planets are in the sign of each
other’s rulership or association.  Examples: Moon in Leo and Sun in Cancer, or
Mars in Sagittarius and Jupiter in Aries.
79. Luminaries – simply refers to the Sun & Moon.
80. Synodic Month - This is the average period of the Moon's revolution with
respect to the Sun and Earth. The Synodic month is the period of the Moon's
phases.  While the moon is orbiting the Earth, the Earth is progressing in its orbit
around the Sun. Thus the Moon must move a little further to catch-up with the
Sun. This longer period is called the Synodic month (Greek: σὺν ὁδῴ, sun hodō,
meaning "with the way [of the Sun]"). The actual time between lunations may
range from about 29.18 to about 29.93 days. The long-term average duration is
29.530589 days (29 d 12 h 44 min 2.9 s). The Synodic month helps in calculating
eclipses.
81. Syzygy – a straight line configuration of three celestial bodies.
82. Nadir – Point directly underneath the observer or place, opposite point to the
Zenith which is the point directly overhead.  The Nadir and the IC are NOT the
same thing, except on the Earth’s equator.
83. Partile – used to describe an aspect where both planets are in the same
degree, i.e., a square from a planet in the 14th degree of Taurus to a planet in the
14th degree of Leo. This is a partile square because both planets are in the same
degree, or close to exact.
84. Precession of the Equinoxes – the Earth wobbles slightly as it turns on its axis
and thus the “polar axis” of the Earth shifts over time in a circular rotation that
takes 26,000 years to complete.  This shift in the orientation of the polar axis
changes the relative position of the stars to the observer on the earth, slowly
shifting the relative positions of the constellations that lie along the Ecliptic,
19
moving the constellations backyards at the rate of about 2,167 years per
constellation of the zodiac and even adding parts of other constellations, like
Ophiuchus, to the zodiac band or ecliptic.
85. Prime Vertical - is the vertical circle passing east and west through the zenith,
and intersecting the horizon in its east and west points.
86. Ptolemaic Aspects – the major aspects:
conjunction,
sextile,
square,
trine,
opposition.
87. Quadrant - The Natal Chart is divided into the following quadrants:
 Quadrant 1 (includes houses 1-3)
 Quadrant 2 (includes houses 4-6)
 Quadrant 3 (includes houses 7-9)
 Quadrant 4 (includes houses 10-12)
88. Saros Cycles – A term that refers to how eclipses can be grouped or classified
into families of reoccurring association.  “Saros” is a Babylonian word meaning
“repetition,” as it was the Babylonians that first recognized that Eclipses returned
to the same place in the heavens every 223 lunations, or 6,585 and 1/3 days, or
18 years and 9 – 11 days (depending upon the number of leap years).  Each Saros
20
Cycle consists of 70 to 71 Solar Eclipses and lasts for a period of about 1260 years.
Each Saros Cycle has a North Node and a South Node series, determined by which
Lunar Node the Solar Eclipse is on.  Robert Jansky recognized 19 Nodal Family
Saros Cycles in effect today.  These Nodal Saros Cycles suggest a link or
connection with the eclipses that occur in the same Saros Cycle, even though they
will be at different degrees of the zodiac.
The black dial of this Antikythera device told how to predict solar or lunar eclipses
over an 18 year period called the Saros Cycle.
To read more about Saros Cycles check out Bernadette Brady’s online information:
http://www.bernadettebrady.com/Pdfs/SarosCycles.pdf