Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - - 1 -
COAC MODULE ONE, Lesson 1:
“Interpreting a Natal Chart”   Homework
© www.nodoor.com
HOMEWORK - Organizing & Prioritizing:
Look at these aspects and on a separate piece of paper make notes about
what these aspects might mean. In addition, continue to develop your
ideas based upon the ENTIRE organization of Gandhi’s chart.
1. Sun in Libra in the 12th House
Trine South Node sextile North Node, orb 3 degrees 14’
Sextile Saturn, orb 3 degrees 26’
 What does the Sun in Libra mean?
 What does the Sun in the 12th House mean?
 The Sun is associated with the sign Leo, the sign of the North Node and
sextile the North Node.  What does this imply?
 If he is learning about leadership in this life, what kind of leader could
he be?
 What does the sextile from his Sun to Saturn imply?
 What does it mean to have Saturn in Sagittarius?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - - 2 -
 What does it mean to have Saturn in Sagittarius in the 2nd House?
 What does the trine to the South Node mean?
 What does the sextile to the North Node mean?
Priortizing Gandhi’s Natal Chart continued…
2. Mercury in Scorpio in the 1st House
 What does Mercury in Scorpio mean?
 What does Mercury in Scorpio mean in House 1?
Square the North and South Lunar Nodes, orb 1 degree 44’
 What does Mercury square the Lunar Nodes mean?
NOTES: Mercury is otherwise unaspected, but this square to the Lunar Nodes
is important, as it will be a significant factor when we begin to analyze the
theme of his story later on.  Even though Mercury is not aspected to the other
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - - 3 -
planets it is not separate or ‘ostracized’ from the rest of the chart.  Mercury
is in Scorpio, so it is linked with Scorpio and Pluto – thus his mind and intellect
‘connects’ with and resonates with the Pluto/Scorpio themes represented by
the signs and strong aspect to Pluto.  Likewise Mars is in the first house, thus
it resonates further with the house position of his Mercury in the first house.
Priortizing Gandhi’s Natal Chart continued…
3. Venus in Scorpio in the 1st House
 What does Venus in Scorpio mean?
 What does Venus in Scorpio in House 1 mean?
Conjunct Mars, orb 1 degree 58’
Opposite Jupiter, orb 3 degrees 44’
Opposite Pluto, orb 1 degree 13’
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - - 4 -
Trine Uranus, orb 5 degrees 15 ‘
Quincunx Neptune, orb 1 degree 59’
[Note the very close opposition to Pluto and conjunction with Mars!]
Priortizing Gandhi’s Natal Chart continued…
4. Mars in Scorpio in the 1st House
What does Mars in Scorpio mean?
What does Mars in Scorpio in House 1 mean?
Opposite Jupiter, orb 1 degree 46’
Opposite Pluto, orb 0 degrees 45’
Trine Uranus, orb 3 degree 17’
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - - 5 -
Quincunx Neptune, 0 degree 01’
[Note the very close quincunx with Neptune!]
Priortizing Gandhi’s Natal Chart continued…
5. Jupiter in Taurus in the 7th House
Conjunct Pluto, orb 2 degrees 31’
Sextile Uranus, orb 1 degree 31’
Semi-sextile Neptune, 1 degree 45’
6. Saturn in Sagittarius in the 2nd House
Trine Neptune, 6 degrees 03’
7. Uranus in Cancer in the 9th House
Square Neptune, orb 3 degrees 16’
8. Neptune in Aries in the 6th House
Semi-sextile Pluto, orb 0 degrees 46’
9. Pluto in Taurus in the 7th House
What did you notice while you were making this list?  What did you think about?  If anything
stands out to you make a comment about it in the margins of your organization of the data,
such as:
EXAMPLE:
Venus in Scorpio conjunct Mars in
Scorpio
Wow!  I’ll bet he has a strong sex drive!  I wonder
how this plays out in his relationship life?  If he’s
married, would he be faithful?  Look at the
complications with how Venus and Mars are
aspected by Jupiter and Pluto and the Moon and
even Neptune!  What does this mean?  At the
very least he’s got be an intensely passionate
guy!  I wonder if he has issues with jealousy or
possessiveness or control issues?