Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
COAC Module 3  Lesson 2:  Secondary Progressions
© www.nodoor.com
“Can you give us a list of the priorities for how to use
Secondary progressions?  This seems a bit complicated to
me.”
Yes!  Here is my list of priorities for secondary progressions.
1). Aspects are more important that sign or house position. (Sign change and house
change denote long term shifts, that are noticed when the sign change occurs.)
2). The orb for all secondary progressed aspects is 1 degree applying and 1 degree
separating.
3). The aspects considered are the
conjunction
sextile
square
trine
opposition
semi-sextile
quincunx
4). The meaning of the aspects and planets remains the same.
5). Aspects are formed by comparing progressed angles and planets to both natal
and progressed planets.  So a progressed planet can aspect a natal planet, but also
a progressed planet too.
6). The outer planets barely move at all with Secondary Progressions.  So, all of the
activity concerns the movement of the progressed angles and the personal planets.
The personal planets form lasting aspects by progression, much different than their
quick influence by transit.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
Secondary Progression Interpretation Priorities:
“I like your list of priorities for secondary progressions.  However,
what about when it comes to interpretation?  I’m not sure what
order to use in analyzing the secondary progressed data?”
“This is a good question, below I am listing for you and your fellow
COAC students, the way I go about analyzing secondary progressions.
If you follow this procedure you’ll cover everything you need in your
interpretation of secondary progressed trends.”
1). Progressed ASC and MC
The progressed angles are important indicators of major trends and can
be used to rectify a chart when the birth time is in question.  The
Progressed MC will cover a two year period of time, whereas the
Progressed ASC may vary from two years to a year and several months,
depending upon whether it is a sign of short or long ascension.
2). TheProgressed Moon moves an average of 1 degree per month and
is a great timer for the emergence of issues and circumstances.  With an
orb of 1 degree applying and 1 degree separating, aspects will cover a
two month period of time.
3). The Progressed Sun is an important indicator of major developments
in one’s life, especially in regards to circumstances affecting significant
males, such as father, husband, son, grandfather, close male friend, or
male mentor.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
4). Progressed Mercury is an important indicator of mental and
intellectual development and study, as well as the emergences of new
ideas and concepts.  On the mundane level Mercury is associated with
neighbors, siblings, school, cars, bicycles and short term transportation
in general.
5). Progressed Venus is an important indicator of social and relationship
developments as well as major financial issues and circumstances.
6). Progressed Mars shows a significant increase in activity.  Efforts are
more strongly asserted as indicated by aspect and position.  Periods of
strife, friction and fighting may also be suggested by progressed Mars, as
well as dealings with males.  On the mundane level this can mean
coming into contact with athletes, soldiers, or martial art practitioners,
and police, etc.  This can also mark a more vigorous time in one’s life.
7). The progressed planets Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto and
also the North and South Node, move only incrementally by progression.
They are mainly triggered by the Progressed Angles and personal planets.
All of their associations and meanings remain consistent.
My progressed Sun will conjunct my natal
Descendant in 3 years, but if I adjust my chart for
an earlier birth time this could be in 1 year!  Do you
think Tian is ready to get married that soon?  I’m
not sure I want to wait 3 years!
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
The Progressed Chart of Barack Obama during his 1st election:
Barack Obama’s chart is progressed for Election Day in 2008, when he was “first” elected US
President, November 4, 2008.
Remember, when comparing secondary progressions to a natal chart and then comparing
secondary progressions to each other, always look at the angles first.  After the angles look at the
Sun, Mercury, Venus, and Mars.  Then observe the progressed Moon and the house it is in,
followed by the aspects the progressed Moon will make over the course of the following year. By
following this procedure you will be able to recognize all of the aspects occurring during the time
in question.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
What significant progressions do you see?
Considering the significance of this career event in his life,what would
you expect to see occurring by secondary progression?
Do you find the contacts between angles and planets that you
would expect?
Inauguration is when the president is “officially sworn in andtakes his
oath of office,” was on January 21, 2009.  Where was the progressed
Moon at that point?
“I calculated Obama’s progressed Moon for his Inauguration; it is 19
degrees Aquarius 25 minutes.  This tells me that his progressed Moon
crossed his natal ASC between the time he was elected and his
inauguration, during which he and his family would have moved their
residence into their new home at the White House.”