COAC Module 6Lesson 2: Synastry ChartsContinued…
Astrological Priorities in Relationships and in Synastry
How can you identify the kind of person someone is most likely to connect with?
In a man’s chart:
1. The Moon by sign, house & aspect
2. Venus by sign, house & aspect
3. House 7: DSC sign, aspects to the DSC, planets in H7, ruler of H7
4. House 8: sign on the cusp, planets in H8, ruler of H8
5. The Lunar Nodes by sign & house  underscore life path themes
that are very applicable in relationships too!
In a woman’s chart:
1. The Sun by sign, house & aspect
2. Mars by sign, house & aspect
3. Venus, by sign house & aspect (In addition to the Sun & Mars,
Venus – as the “natural” 7th house ruler, remains an additional
indicator of likes and dislikes.)
4. House 7: DSC sign, aspects to the DSC, planets in H7, ruler of
H7
5. House 8: sign on the cusp, planets in H8, ruler of H8
6. The Lunar Nodes by sign & house  underscore life path themes that are very
applicable in relationships too!
Use Synastry to identify additional connections by “house” or “aspect.” Pay
special attention to close aspects between two charts!  The closer the aspect
the more important it is.  Aspects to angles or personal planets have a high
priority, however close aspects to any planet in your chart are important and
will play out in the relationship.  Planets that fall in House 7, 8, 11 or 4 are
very important in relating to each other as partners, lovers, friends and
family.  Any house connection may play out in the relationship.  Planets in
H10 or H6 may correspond to career connections for example.
The Moon and Venus will
show the kind of woman “he”
is likely to attract or notice.
Compare the Lunar Nodes in one chart to the
Lunar Nodes in the other chart.  Are the nodes
compatible by sign or by aspect?  Are the nodes
compatible by house?
The Sun and Mars will show the
kind of man a woman is likely
to attract or notice.
Synastry Aspect Samples:
In these two Synastry aspect samples study the key words and phrases used with the
second person quotes in parenthesis.  Also pay attention to the examples and the
follow up explanation.
Your Sun squares their Moon:  “Your ego is challenged by their way of
nurturing you.  Their moods conflict with your decision making process.”
Example:
From the Sun in Libra point of view: “Your cooperation seems to depend upon your
mood.  Your feelings appear to dominate our interaction.”
From the Moon in Cancer point of view: “If not sure how you feel about anything, or
what it is you really need.  You always try to persuade me to feel better instead of just
letting me feel how I feel.”
Explanation:The Sun corresponds to where we want to “shine,” i.e. what we are “proud
of,” which also corresponds to our investment in our ego.  In addition the Sun is always
at the core of our decision making process.  Whereas the Moon resonates with our
instinctive emotional reactions and our need for security.  In the case of a square
between one person’s Sun and the other person’s Moon, there is a basic conflict
between ego gratification and security needs.  The Sun wants to be in charge in some
way, to be the leader, but the Moon could care less about who is in charge (unless the
Moon is in Leo!) .  The Moon is more interested in feeling secure.
Notice the judgement of the other from each signs perspective.  Libra prides itself on its
ability to generate harmony and to “get along well” with almost anyone.  Look at the
more careful objective “air” words that Libra uses like “seems to depend upon” or
“Your feelings appear to dominate…”  Libra is attempting to describe their experience
more “objectively,” but there is a decided bias in their view regarding the “feelings” or
emotions of Cancer that are labeled as dominating their interaction.  The Moon in
Cancer person doesn’t feel any feelings or emotions from Libra, other than a vague
sense of disapproval, and can’t tell what Libra really needs, and this compounds their
feeling of uncertainty and insecurity.  Plus the Cancer Moon individual feels that Libra is
trying to pull them out of their mood, and not allow them to just be with their feelings
or mood until it passes.  In such a case the Libra Sun may experience their attempt to
bring harmony as ineffective or rejected, while judging the Cancer Moon person as
“moody” or difficult or selfish. (Describing others as selfish is a typical Libra label that
stems from an abstract judgment regarding “fairness” or “unfairness.”)
Situation or Circumstances:
Suppose a woman with the Sun in Libra is out on a first date with a man who has the
Moon in Cancer.  They go to the Man’s favorite restaurant, one that he frequently goes
to and considers to be like a second home kitchen.  While ordering dinner the Moon in
Cancer Man learns from the waiter than the head chef is not there tonight.
Immediately the Moon in Cancer man begins to feel insecure, but he orders dinner
anyway despite the fact that he cannot hide his disappointment.  The Sun in Libra
woman sees his change of mood and attempts to engage him in conversation about
other more pleasant subjects, but the Moon in Cancer man continues to appear anxious
as he dwells upon dinner and doesn’t show
much interest in his dates conversation about
an article she recently read in Psychologies
Magazine.  The table has grown quiet and bit
uncomfortable by the time dinner is served.
After several bites the Moon in Cancer man
frowns unhappily, “This is not good tonight,”
he complains.  “That’s okay,” the Libra woman
replies, and adds, “it’s really above standard I
would say,” as she attempts to offset what she
interprets as an apology from him.  “No, it
really sucks” the Cancer Moon man says, looking irritable and sad at the same time.
“You would know if you had ever eaten here before.  The chef here is really amazing.”
“Maybe we’ll come here another time, then?” the Libra woman offers.  “Sure,” the man
says unconvincingly.  “Waiter,” the man calls the waiter over.  “This is terrible.  It’s not
the same at all without the head chef.” The waiter looks embarrassed and the Libra
woman is embarrassed too.  “It’s really not that bad,” she counters.  Her Cancer Moon
date makes a sour face, “What do you know?  You’ve never eaten here before?  Waiter,
I want my check.  I’m ready to leave.”  On the way home in the taxi all is silent.  The
Libra woman is still thinking about how unfairly the waiter was treated and the Cancer
Moon man can’t wait to get home, heat up some leftovers from lunch, and take his
little dog out for a short evening walk.
Imagine that one or both of these people were clients of yours.  What kind of
“awareness” and behavior might have improved this dinner date?  What might
represent a better outcome beyond this bad first date.  How might another date
actually happen in the future?  What might the Libra woman do?  What might the
Cancer Moon man do?   Think about the philosophy of personal growth and acceptance.
How can such awareness and acceptance make a difference in terms of relatedness?
Your Moon opposes their Moon:“Your instinctive way of responding to feelings of
insecurity are completely opposite.  Emotional tension pulls you apart but increases the
necessity of coordinating some kind of cooperation or agreement.”  (Remember an
opposition has a “Libra-like” dynamic to it.)
From the Moon in Virgo point of view: “They were very vague and confusing to me.  I
needed to focus on the situation but they seemed elsewhere; I kept having to repeat
myself to stay on track.  I don’t know if they were being evasive or not really interested or
just not paying attention or what?”
From the Moon in Pisces point of view: “They kept repeating the same questions, and
coming back to the same subjects.  I could see how worried they were and I felt sorry for
them; I know what that can feel like.  I kept imagining that I was giving them a foot
massage while I listened to them talk.”
Explanation:
Anyone with the Moon in Virgo needs a logical way to solve problems that are
contributing to feelings of insecurity.  If they discover “new accounting software” that
allows them to better organize their personal finances they “feel” more secure.
Keeping it simple helps too, even though a Moon in Virgo person often has the best
instincts for problem solving – especially when the subject is within their area of
expertise, they still prefer the simplest solution.  However, no Moon sign is more
analytical regarding their own feelings and emotions.  Applying rational logic as a tool
to solve irrational emotions explains the nervous edge common to many Moon in Virgo
mood patterns.  Yet, this Moon sign can make for a brilliant “analyst” – be it a systems
analyst for a company or analyst in the sense of psychologist – though usually this is
mixed with some Libra and 7th house placements, or sometimes with Neptune aspects
or 12th house/Pisces-like additions.  However, the Moon in Virgo is into “methodology”
over “empathy,” and “technique” versus “intuition,” for Virgo lacks the empathic and
intuitive attributes of its opposite sign Pisces.
Someone with the Moon in Pisces may or may not know what is contributing to their
feelings of insecurity.  They may recognize a variety of possibilities, but oftentimes
nothing specific.  Simple solutions have little to do with a logical or analytical process.
Music, meditation, dance, Tai-chi, yoga, painting, poetry, or almost any area of creative
self-expression can miraculously alter feelings of insecurity.  Likewise, the expression of
compassion can temporarily shift feelings of disillusionment.  No sign placement is
more emotionally sensitive than the Moon in Pisces.  Such sensitivity can be inspired or
occasionally even psychic at one extreme or overwhelmed by life at the other extreme.
In relationships the person with the Moon in Pisces is quite empathetic and forgiving.
Whereas, the Moon in Virgo can be critical and exacting.  Yet there is a “servant”
quality to the Moon in Virgo that lends itself to becoming nearly indispensable in
relationships, providing practical service support to their partners in often very specific
ways.  Thus, both Virgo Moon and Pisces Moon, though opposite signs, can offer
emotional support in relationships – though in entirely different ways.  With Virgo, the
support is likely to include “constructive criticism.”  With Pisces such support is infused
with unconditional acceptance, which can have a miraculous healing quality, though
practical details are often absent.
Imagine a relationship scenario using the photo below with a Moon in Pisces woman
whose Moon is closely opposite the Moon in Virgo Man in the picture.  Allow a problem
situation to develop and then advise solutions from a personal growth perspective.
Synastry: Chart Samples
Husbands chart in the center wheel and wife’s chart is in the outer wheel.
Wife’s chart is in the center wheel and husband’s chart is in the outer wheel.
Girlfriend’s chart is in the center wheel and boyfriend’s chart is in the outer wheel
Boyfriend’s chart in the center wheel and girlfriend’s chart is in the outer wheel