COAC Module 10 Lesson 3:
Explanation of Planetary Cycles & Dispositors
for ISAR and COAC Examinations
©  www.nodoor.com
Planetary Cycles: Timelines for Planet Pairs: Conjunctions
 Jupiter Conjunct Saturn Timeline: 20 years - Major cycles of economic
expansion and contraction.
 Jupiter Conjunct Uranus Timeline: 14 years – Inventions and innovative
ideas.
 Jupiter Conjunct Neptune Timeline:13 years – (in the same sign
(different degree) about every 166 years) Inspirational philosophies, new
health and healing concepts.
 Jupiter Conjunct Pluto Timeline: 12 years - Development of new or revival
of old concepts regarding survival and use of resources.  Outmoded
concepts are abandoned.
 Saturn Conjunct Uranus Timeline: 45 years - Innovations become an
established in mainstream society, very practical applications emerge.
 Saturn Conjunct Neptune Timeline: 35 - 37 years (repeats in the same
sign about every 323 years) Establishment of health practices and
regulations, idealism becomes law, inspiration conventionalized.
 Saturn Conjunct Pluto Timeline:33 years - Management of power and
resources consolidated.
 Uranus Conjunct Neptune Timeline:170 years. Uranus and Neptune
conjunctions occurred in 1650, 1821, 1993 and next time in 2165. These
are more regular than the cycles involving Pluto due to Pluto's elliptical
and eccentric orbit.
 Uranus Conjunct Pluto Timeline:111 to 143 years– Innovations in the use
of resources, disruption or changes in the control of resources.
 Neptune Conjunct Pluto Timeline: 500 years – Inspiration and ideals
guide the use of power and resources
Number of years between Conjunction, First
Square, Opposition and Last Square
This table lets you quickly see the number of years in each quarter
cycle following the conjunction.
Planet
Conjunct
Time to Waxing
Square
Time to
Opposition
Time to Waning
Square
Time to next
Conjunction
Jupiter Cycles
Jupiter -
Saturn
5
10
15
20
Jupiter -
Uranus
3.5
7
10.5
14
Jupiter -
Neptune
3.25
6.5
9.75
13
Jupiter - Pluto
3
6
9
12
Saturn Cycles
Saturn -
Uranus
11.25
22.5
33.75
45
Saturn -
Neptune
9
18
27
36
Saturn - Pluto
8.25
16.5
24.75
33
Uranus Cycles
Uranus -
Neptune
43
86.25
129
172.5
Uranus - Pluto
26-31.5
55-72
81-103.5
111-143
Neptune Pluto
Neptune -
Pluto
124
248
372
495
VENUS CYCLE
Orbital cycle is 225 days.  Return Cycle to conjunction within 3 degrees of the same sign, is 7.997 years. This is
only two days, eight hours short of exactly eight years.
MARS CYCLE
(Here is an article I wrote about the Mars Cycle during aprevious Retrograde Mars)
Mars
Retrograde(January 24, 2012 at 8:55 Beijing Time until April 14, 2012 at 11:54 Beijing Time)
Yes, Mars is retrograde again, something that happens about every year and 11.3 months, with
approximately 712 days between the time Mars goes Direct and the next time it appears Retrograde.  The
last time Mars was retrograde was between December 20, 2009 and March 10, 2010 in the Sign of Leo.  This
time Mars is retrograding in the Sign of Virgo. Retrograde means “moving backwards,” something Mars
appears to be doing to the observer on Earth, though Mars is “not” actually moving backwards but continuing
on in its  687 day orbit around the Sun.  Because the Earth only takes 365 days to go around the Sun it
eventually passes Mars, catching up with
Mars every 23.3 months.
Even though Mars is not really moving
backwards, it can be said that these
retrograde periods do mark an important
“phenomenon” in the orbital relationships
between the Earth, Mars and the Sun.  As the
Earth approaches within 40 days of passing
Mars, Mars will appear to the observer on
Earth to stop and slowly reverse its relative
position in the sky over the course of the
next 80 days. Forty days into this retrograde
period Mars, Earth and the Sun will all be in
an alignment that astrologers call a Sun-Mars
opposition.
In this alignment the earth is in between
Mars and the Sun, so from the Earth’s
perspective Mars and the Sun are on exactly
opposite sides of the Earth.  Every retrograde
Mars period is characterized by this
opposition, represented by the letter “d” in
the diagram on the left.  This time the
opposition occurs on March 4, 2012 at 4:11
Beijing Time.  The Sun will be at 13 degrees
of the Sign Pisces and Mars at 13 degrees of
the Sign Virgo.
The astrological meaning of a retrograde Mars is very simple in theory.  Because Mars is associated
with our natural urge to take action, or to assert ourselves aggressively, a retrograde Mars
concentrates this force in a more specific range.  Each retrograde Mars period is in a different Sign
of the Zodiac and thus concentrates this energy in different ways for each of us every time.  Though
we are all affected by a retrograde Mars, the degree to which it affects us depends upon how the
planets were positioned when you were born.  This Retrograde Mars occurs between 23 degrees
and 4 degrees of Virgo.  If you were born with the Sun, Moon, Ascendant or planets in any of the
mutable signs Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces within the range of these degrees then you will
be more impacted by this retrograde Mars then those who were not.  Serious students of astrology
will know where Mars is retrograding in their natal or birth chart.
Whatever house Mars retrogrades in will be a hot area of activity.  In the positive sense, this
means that a lot can get done in that area of your life!  In the negative sense, this might imply
friction or agitated situations that threaten or challenge you to take action.  Managing one’s anger
and aggressiveness is very important in whatever area Mars is retrograding in your natal chart,
especially if it is in hard aspect to your ASC, MC, Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus or Mars.  The “proper
use of force” is important to remember during this retrograde period.  I have seen many clients
make significant accomplishments during a retrograde Mars.
For example, a retrograde Mars in your 4th House might signal a renovation of your home or
apartment or even moving.  Thus if Mars is retrograding through your 4th house, after the
retrograde you can be proud of what you’ve accomplished with domestic projects.  However, such
projects will often take more time and more effort than was realized in the beginning, and this is
the downside of the retrograde.  I remember one case of a client in New York City renovating a new
loft apartment during a retrograde Mars.  During renovation he discovered structural problems
with the ceiling and support beams that required far more work and expense to remedy than he
had originally anticipated.
A more challenging example would be that of someone who has their Natal Moon in the 7th house
while Mars retrograded in their 4th house.  In such a case roommate situations could become
uncomfortable, or someone may move-in “temporarily” disrupting the harmony of the
environment.  With Mars squaring a 7th house Moon circumstances might also involve a
boyfriend/girlfriend situation or husband/wife issue that is upsetting the household.  Yet even
when dealing with upsets and challenges a retrograde Mars represents times to learn how to
handle one’s anger and direct one’s energy more appropriately and effectively.
Because this Retrograde Mars is in the Sign Virgo you are likely to find that this period favors
organizing or at least “re-organizing” whatever area of your life it impacts.  I laughed this time,
when on the day Mars went retrograde the top drawer of my largest client filing cabinet collapsed –
sending hundreds of files with their contents crashing to the floor.  My filing cabinet has yet to be
repaired, though I have reorganized the files which sit stacked neatly on the floor.  I am determined
to repair this cabinet before I leave for China again in 10 days, but we will see?
Postscript: I was unable to repair the filing cabinet and instead
went to the store and bought a replacement.
The Next MARS RETROGRADE:
Rx April 17, 2016 at 8 degrees and 54 minutes of Sagittarius
D  June 30, 2016 at 23 degrees and 04 minutes of Scorpio
Orbital Cycles
JUPITER CYCLE
Cycle Length: 11.88 years. Notes: (Check for exact dates.) Jupiter returns occur just before
the following birthdays: 12th, 24th 36th, 48th 60th and just after the 71St, 83rd and 95th.
NODAL CYCLE
Cycle Length: 18.5997 years. Notes: The nodal axis returns to its original position at about
ages 37, 55, 74, and 95.
METONIC CYCLE
Cycle Length: 19 years. Notes: 235 synodic months = 254 sidereal months 19 years,
accurate within less than eighteen hours. Thus these solar and lunar rhythms return to
their natal starting points within days of the 19th, 38th, 57th, 76th  and 95th birthdays.
PROGRESSED LUNAR CYCLE
Cycle Length: 27.3 years. Notes: A progressed lunar return occurs at age 27, age 54, and
just short of age 82.
SATURN CYCLE
Cycle Length: 29.42 years. Notes: (Check for exact dates.) Saturn returns occur at age 29,
age 59, and age 88.
CHIRON CYCLE
Cycle Length: 50.42 years. Notes: We experience a Chiron return at age 50 and at about
age 101.
URANUS CYCLE
Cycle Length: 83.75 years. Notes: Check for exact dates for waxing Uranian square (average
age 21), Uranian opposition (average age 42), and waning Uranian square (average age 63).
The Uranian return occurs just before the 84th birthday.
NEPTUNE CYCLE
Cycle Length: 163.72 years. Notes: (Check for exact dates.) Neptune square Neptune
oscillates between approximately ages 39 and 42. The Neptune opposition occurs in the
early eighties.
PLUTO CYCLE
Cycle Length: 248.6 years. Notes: (Check for exact dates.) Pluto square Pluto oscillates
between the late thirties and about age 90, marking one of the most distinct psychological
differences among generations.
Frequency and length of retrograde periods
Mercury
Average of three times a year for 21 to 23 days Mercury has the highest
frequency of retrograde and stays in this position for the shortest length of
time of any other planet.
Venus
Every eighteen months for approximately 6 weeks.
Mars
Every two years and it stays for2 ½  months.
Jupiter
Approximately once a year for around 4 months
Saturn
Once a year for about 4 ½  months
Uranus
Every year for about 5 months
Neptune
Every year for5 months
Pluto
Every year for 5 months
Dispositors and dispositor relationships
Any planet in its own sign is the dispositor of itself and or the
“final dispositor” of any planet whose sign is associated with it.
These sign associations were established during Classical
“Hellenistic” times and were called “lords” or “rulerships.”
Aries
Mars
Taurus
Venus
Gemini
Mercury
Cancer
Moon
Leo
Sun
Virgo
Mercury
Libra
Venus
Scorpio
Pluto
Sagittarius
Jupiter
Capricorn
Saturn
Aquarius
Uranus
Pisces
Neptune
A final dispositor holds an important position in a chart, and will
be relied on within the decision-making process of an individual
as the “bottom line.”
Here are some sample final dispositors with explanations:
→
→
Emotional well-being is nurtured by unique
friendships, with a basic underlying urge for fairness and pleasing others.
→
→
Moods and feelings are expressed more humorously
or optimistically and supported by philosophy, travel experiences and
education.
ASC
→
→
→
Someone with a sensitive outer personality
that is more deeply concerned about how achieving their dreams depends
upon having or developing resources.  “Will I survive if I follow my dreams?”
→
→
→
Concerns about relationships impacts their
urge to do a good job; and though relationships are like family, the needs of
family and home and for domestic security are their primary motivation.
Many charts do not have a “final dispositor”.
In cases like this the dispositor chain
is in an endless loop, much like an
internal debate that has no ultimate
or final resolution.  However there is
a kind of internal chain of association
like  associates on a committee –
each contributing to the solving of
the problem or issue at hand.
Mercury in Sagittarius seeks knowledge and wisdom, but this knowledge must
– according to Jupiter in Capricorn - serve a purpose and fit with a practical
philosophy or even a business goal.  With Saturn in Gemini there is concern
that the information be correct and handled in a cautious careful manner.  Yet
this caution then gives way to the enthusiasm of Sagittarius for new
knowledge and seeking greater truths and wisdom, and so on….
Suppose Mercury in Sagittarius was opposite Saturn in Gemini?
Now this dispositor chain shows an underlying relationship between Mercury
and Saturn.  Thus there is internal tension between the urge to read and study
and pursue the adventures of the mind  and a concern about what would be
the best or the more responsible use of time.  This person is serious about
learning, they want the most credible information.
They are careful in their study and serious about tests, with more
discipline than is typical for a Mercury in Sagittarius, and more of
a need to be taken seriously by others as a credible source of
information. (Remember, an opposition is about relationships!)
If this person was a teacher or instructor they would be very careful in their
preparation of lesson material and in the systematic teaching of their subject.
In a consulting role this individual would be very concerned about imparting
correct information, and would work hard to be prepared.  They want to be
taken seriously by their client and prove themselves as a responsible
individual in the handling of important information.
Many charts may have several dispositor chains without a final dispositor
In this chart can you see that there are a number of dispositor chains?
For example, the Sun is disposited by Venus, which is disposited by Pluto
which is again disposited by the Sun – and the chain begins again.  Mars is
disposited by Saturn, disposited by Pluto, disposited by the Sun, disposited
by Venus, disposited by Pluto and back to the Sun again!
However, in the above chart the Moon is disposited by Jupiter which is
then again disposited by the Moon!  This is called MUTUAL RECEPTION,
and is a special relationship formed when two planets are in each other’s
sign.  The meaning of mutual reception is that these 2 planets or bodies are
in such sympathy with each other that they can “seem to almost trade
places with each other.”
Thus the Moon can sometimes behave like the Moon in Cancer and Jupiter as if it were in
Sagittarius.  In the above case the man’s mother was a school teacher, who came from a
whole family of “educators and teachers.”  This man also became a professor, teaching
anatomy at a Medical College.  He had a wicked sense of humor and was much loved and
feared by his students, having a serious side – Mercury conjunct Saturn – along with his
Sagittarius humor.
DR