David’s Strange History
Astrology Corner
David R. Railey
The horrified crowd listened as Roosevelt stated “it takes
more than that to kill a bull moose!”  Roosevelt’s political
party was called the Bull Moose party – a Third Party
attempt to elect a president.  Afterwards Roosevelt was
rushed to the hospital where awed doctors removed the
bullet from his chest amazed that he hadn’t bled to death
or gone into shock.  The photograph on the right was
taken only slightly before the assassination-attempt, which
occurred at 8:05 p.m. according to newspaper reports.
When you look at Theodore Roosevelt’s natal chart you
will immediately see he was born with a Scorpio Sun and
Mercury opposite Pluto, so his Scorpio theme is pronounced!   However, with Gemini Rising and Jupiter
in Gemini conjunct his Ascendant he was known for his big speeches – which would explain why he
would have a 50-page speech folded over once inside his breast coat pocket!   So it was his penchant for
big speeches that would help to save his life!  Roosevelt’s resilience is further underscored by having
Mars exactly conjunct the H8 cusp – in Capricorn, a tough combination with obvious political ambitions.
Yet, most astonishingly, since we have the exact time of the attempted assassination, we can see that 20
degrees of Gemini 55 minutes was Rising at the moment the bullet was fired – conjunct Roosevelt’s
natal Jupiter!  There would only be 1 minute out of every 24 hour day that the Ascendant would be this
close to Roosevelt’s Jupiter.  Incredible odds that at that moment an assassin would try to send
Roosevelt on a one way journey!   The “world transits” that day certainly fit the impulsive actions of
someone who be found by the courts to be insane.  Notice that transiting Mars is applying to a
conjunction with Mercury and a square to Uranus, while separating from a square to Neptune.  Thus
there was a T-square world transit with Mars and Mercury triggering the Uranus-Neptune opposition of
that year.  This world transit was beginning to move towards Roosevelt’s Mercury.  We can only
speculate that had this transit been closer to exact that Roosevelt might have been killed.  As it was, this
Mars transit would coincide with a temporary disruption of Roosevelt’s campaign schedule as he angrily
grumbled and fumed while recovering from the bullet wound over the next two weeks.
Scorpio’s are notorious for their ability to survive
what might kill other signs, but it helps to be born
with a prominent Jupiter too.   Consider the case of
former American president Theodore Roosevelt
campaigning in Milwaukee on October 14, 1912,
when a would-be-assassin fired a bullet into the right
side of Roosevelt’s chest while he waved at a crowd
on his way to make a speech.  Much of the force of
the bullet was absorbed by the President’s eyeglasses
case and by the 50-page speech he was carrying in his
breast pocket.  Nevertheless, the bullet lodged itself
just short of his lung, and, dripping blood, Roosevelt
pulled himself up to the podium.  He asked the crowd
to please “…be very quiet and excuse me from
making a long speech.  I’ll do the best I can, but
there’s a bullet in my body…  I have a message to
deliver, and I will deliver it as long as there is life in
my body.”  He then spoke for 90 minutes, waving his
blood stained speech,  which he could no longer refer
to with a huge ragged hole in the middle of it.
Assassination attempt October 14, 1912 at 8:05 p.m. in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA in outer wheel.