！
|
CHAPTER 3
The Seventeenth Century
•••no sooner has he learn'd the Mystery to Set a figure, but he fancies himself, a
whole Sphear above Tycho Brahe, or Fryar Bacon; and is more proud of the knack of
finding Part of Fortune, than Colmbus of discovering the new golden world.
William Ramesey, The Character of a Qrack-Astrologer: Or, the Spurious Prognosticator
Anatomix'd （1673）， third page in unpaginated text
In 1981, a long-lost astrological diary was discovered in the William Andrews Clark Memorial
Library in the University of California. This diary had been written by Samuel Jeake, a
merchant who had lived during the latter half of the seventeenth century in Rye, a seaside
town in southern England.' Interspersed with the text were a large number of horoscopes and
a proliferation of astrological references to events in Jeake's own life. There is little doubt that
the discovery was a most important event for historians of astrology: the diary reveals the mind
of a man who had an almost scientific urge to validate the truths of astrology, and who made
every attempt to incorporate up-to-date concepts into his astrological work.2 In some respects，
this urge to settle astrology on well-tested ground, by means of experiment, was the keynote of
the seventeenth-century art at its best.
All the books dealing with Samuel Jeake as an astrologer insist that there is an engraved
horoscope on the fagade of his former storehouse in Mermaid Street, Rye, Sussex.3 We know
from his diaries that, in 1689, he cast a foundation chart to determine a suitable time to
commence building the wool storehouse, which was later called Jeake's House. Indeed, Jeake
went to the trouble of copying the horoscope for this propitious moment into his diary.
Opposite, is a copy of this chart, alongside a drawing of Jeake's storehouse, in its modern
restored form. From this diary we learn that Jeake personally laid the foundation stone for the
building, at the appropriate cosmic moment.
If foundation stone ceremonies and horoscopes are designed to ensure the durability of
buildings, then this ceremony, which related the building to the heavens, certainly worked：
the storehouse has survived through numerous transformations and vicissitudes. After its
first phase as a wool store, it became a school and, later, a dwelling house. It was near-derelict
when the American novelist Conrad Aiken purchased it in 1924, and fitted it out as a suit-
able venue for his friends, among whom were T.S. Eliot, E.F. Benson, Radclyffe Hall and
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
81
•10.33•
.2.283+
2
Sarti 13.168g
fora meribioma
Meit8oRofs
.24
8xf《Prtiong
你
然10.
+
the artist, Paul Nash. Converted yet again, Jeake's House now serves as part of a modernised
hotel.
On the fagade of the building, at the level of the second-floor window, a square stone is inset
into the wall. This is large enough to contain a quadrate chart, which would have been legible
from the road. However, I am disappointed to report that if there ever had been a horoscope
mounted in the square, it must have been removed many years ago.4
As a matter of fact, a historian of astrology knowing something of Jeake's background would
be surprised if, in 1689, he had publicised a horoscope in the form of a stone carving. Jeake had
endured many tribulations because of his Nonconformist religion, and it is unlikely that he
would have been advertising his ‘magical' art in so public a way. Jeake was certainly obsessed
with astrology, yet some of his astrological notes were written in code, and some of the
horoscopes he recorded seem to have been intended for his eyes only, or for the eyes of the more
82
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
famous English astrologer, Henry Coley, whom he knew personally. Furthermore, it is clear
from Jeake's own diary that he was apprehensive about the whole business of casting foundation
charts like the one that was supposed to adorn his wool-store. Jeake was a Nonconformist - a
Puritan - and such a form of astrology as ‘elections' lay uneasily with his sect.
In the seventeenth-century climate of witchcraft fears, clectional astrology was believed by
some to smack of magical practice.' This probably explains why Jeake pointed out that he had
cast the chart only as a matter of 'experiment'， and certainly not with any real confidence that
Artificiaks （things built by the artifice of man） could be subject to the heavens, as were God's
creatures. His mentor Henry Coley had insisted chat astrologers should judge only "Lawful’
questions - even though he did include among these such things as elections.6
Perhaps there never was a stone horoscope on the fagade of the wool storehouse in that
cobbled street in Rye, yet the story introduces us to an astrologer of fine capability and deep
learning, whose work deserves to be more widely known, as a representative of late seventeenth-
century English astrology. Jeake was one of a small number of English astrologers who made
serious attempts to set the art on a reformed and tested foundation. He is one of the few English
astrologers who is known to have studied in depth the massive and reformative work, written
earlier in the century by the French astrologer, Morin de Villefranche, and to have introduced
into his own work some of the proposed reforms.7
Jeake may be regarded as truly representative of the pioneering astrologers of the seventeenth
century. The best-known English practitioner, William Lilly, had shown no real interest in
reform, and seems to have put all his energies into the practice of an astrology chat involved
him in few doubts, and which brought him considerable wealth. John Gadbury, only slightly
less well known than Lilly as an astrologer, had shown an interest in reforming astrology, but
was sporadic in his attempts to introduce actual reforms. However, Gadbury had set out his
position clearly when he wrote, one real experiment is of greater worth ..than one hundred
pompous predictions'.8
Jeake's 'experiments' probably did owe something to the new scientific spirit that was
permeating English intellectual life, in the latter half of the century. It is evident that astrology
did have some common ground with astronomy and mathematics, wherein such scientific
research was notably being applied. However, astrology was uniquely concentrated on a
prognostic methodology which owed Little to either of these two disciplines, and which made it
remarkably impermeable to the scientific method. It is in horoscopy that we see astrology as a
unique tool, honed to utility by centuries of use, and employed as an instrument of
interpretation that carried it well beyond the premises of astronomy and mathematics. By the
time our history begins, in the late medieval world, astrology stood as an independent art - that
world would have used the word scientia - which owed its calculative method to mathematics，
but which owed its forms of interpretation to no other discipline than itself. The unique
contribution made by English astrology during the seventeenth century has been dealt with in a
penetrating and scholarly manner by the modern historian Ann Geneva. She concludes that the
astrology of the seventeenth century was a unique divinatory and prognostic art, embodying
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
83
centuries of tradition.9 However, amid the mytiad astrologers who practised during the
seventeenth century, such voices are few and far between. Few astrologers were interested in
reform, so much as in masteting and using a tradition which seemed, on the whole, to work as
a prophetic tool.
We are inclined to see the history of astrology in terms of our own prejudices. These
prejudices, which tend to laud the scientific method, were not rampant in the seventeenth
century even though, during that time, new attitudes to science were being forged on Baconian
principles. In the seventeenth century, different prejudices were formative. Then the
underlying urge （indeed, the struggle） of astrologers was not to prove that their art was
somehow scientific, but that it was compatible with Christian belief. The astrologer William
Lilly wrote the defining book of the century as a shameless compilation of earlier works: it was
an anthology of traditional beliefs, rendered more acceptable to his readers by the title，
Christian Astrology. It is significant that there was little in this work which pertained to
Christianity: indeed, almost everything in the book dealt with an astrology that was just about
as pagan as that promulgated by Prolemy, a millennium and a half earlier. Even the well-
known reformers of the age were more interested in Christian reformation than anything we
would now call scientific. As we shall see, the influential French astrologer, Jean-Baptiste
Morin, was more intent in fitting the art into a strait-jacket of Catholic orthodoxy than in
turning it into a 'science' - no matter how we attempt to define this elusive term. In a sense，
Jeake was being more Christian in his approach to astrology in feeling uncomfortable about
election charts, which savoured of 'magic'， than Lilly, who made extensive use of such a method
of charting in his magnum opus. Jeake, already marginalised in society by virtue of his
Nonconformist religion, was among the few astrologers of the period who sought to subject his
art to a method, and who was prepared to check, on a near-experimental basis, the techniques
then in widespread use.
There is no greater contrast between the charts which Gadbury published in his Collectio
Geniturarum （1662） than those laboriously collected and checked by Jeake, perhaps with
publication in mind. Gadbury had merely borrowed from other astrological sources a selection
of charts of well-known individuals, like that of Henry Burton' which we examined on page
71. Jeake, on the other hand, cast the charts for more than 150 people whom he knew
personally （mainly from within Rye itself）， and drew up an essential list of personal "accidents'，
which he attempted to relate to these charts. His approach to the art was essentially
experimental in spirit. His obsession with his own solar revolution for 1687 was an extension
of his interest in attempting to discover the rules governing astrological investigation and
cosmic causation or, as he put it， "Astrall Causes'.10
If astrological sigils are anything to go by, there is more astrology in the house opposite the
modern hotel that once served as Jeake's storehouse. Hartshorne House, a massive, fifteenth-
century half-timber-frame dwelling, had come to Samuel Jeake as part of the dowry due on his
marriage to his child-bride, Elizabeth Hartshorne. Since those days the house has carried a
84
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
confusion of names, the relevance of which depends upon the period one has in mind.
Confusingly, it is really the true Jeake's House, for it was here that Jeake and his family lived.
However, before Jeake came into possession, by virtue of marriage, it was called Hartshorne
House; its former owner had been headmaster of Rye Grammar School. A century after Jeake
died, it was renamed The Old Hospital, for it served the military in this guise during the
Napoleonic Wars.
L am not sure how old the iron door knocker mounted on the main door of this house really
is, but it is in the form of the sigil for zodiacal Aries: Y. This resemblance may be nothing
more than a happy accident, yet the fact is that Aries was a sign that seemed to follow Samuel
Jeake wherever he went, and whatever he did. Aries was exactly on the Midheaven of his
horoscope, cast for 4 July 1652, at 6:15 AM, in Rye. 1 When, twenty-eight years later, Jeake
cast a chart to determine the best moment to approach Mrs Hartshorne about a possible mar-
riage to her daughter, Jeake ensured that Aries was on the seventh house （the house of
marriage）， and that Cauda was in precisely the same degree of Aries as Caput in his own birth
chart.'2 Six days later, when he cast a chart to determine the best time to actually propose
marriage to the girl, he ensured that Aries was on the same seventh house.' Later still, on
1 March 1681, when he - now twenty-nine years old - married the young girl, the disruptive
planet Uranus was in Aries. When Jeake drew up the chart for this happy union, his hand
seems to have slipped, and his usually exquisite charting was marred: he seems to have placed
Venus in Aries, but then corrected it, to place the planet of love in Taurus.14 Two days
afterwards （as Jeake recorded, in code） the marriage was consummated. The troublesome
Uranus was now in 18.34 Aries.
Jeake's astrological analysis of the accidents' in his life - though unfortunately left
unfinished at his death in 1699 - is among the more astonishing astrological documents of the
seventeenth century. It was, among other things, an attempt to explore the accuracy of
Naibod's Measure of Time （see page 54） and Morin's method of calculating directions, for the
purpose of predictive astrology.！5
Jeake's death came at the very end of the seventeenth century, yet he belonged to a stream of
astrology that may be traced back to the beginning of that century. Jeake was one of the large
group of astrologers who appear to have learned their preliminary astrology from the writings
of William Lilly - in this case, by way of Lilly's friend and amanuensis Henry Coley.1 William
Lilly had been taught astrology by John Evans, a curate of Enville, Staffordshire and later
rector of Littleton-on-Severn, Gloucestershire, who, as an Oxford graduate, also offered tuition
in Latin, Greek, Hebrew and mathematics.I7 It is unlikely that Jeake had personal followers
and students. His son and namesake seems to have been more interested in building flying
machines than in exploring astrology.
Perhaps because of his mercantile background, Jeake was extremely methodical and precise
- he paid great attention to ensuring the accuracy of his horoscopes: in some respects, he was
more careful than cither of his English mentors. Both Coley and William Lilly were frequently
careless in the way in which they cast and interpreted charts, especially those of the horary
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
85
kind, which were usually of such importance to the querents. Jeake's charts are a delight, for
they are as accurate as the tabulations of the day would permit.
The charts in Jeake's manuscripts are worthy of close analysis, in so far as they reflect the
astrologer's near-scientific attempts to study, through the medium of planetary influences, the
incidence of accidents in his life. What in his diary may appear to be excessive self-absorption
with such minutiae as financial transactions, physical accidents and periodic illnesses, are
actually a consequence of his attempt to establish a 'history' against which he could seek a
celestial cause for such mundane events. Nowhere in this diary are there horoscopes quite as
interesting as the chree he cast relating to the negotiations leading up to his marriage.
The earliest of these horoscopes was cast for the moment of his first approach to the mother of
the fourteen-year-old girl he wished to marry. In the related diary entries we are permitted an
insight into just how complex - and just what hard-driven bargains - were arrangements
regarding dowry. The second chart is cast for the moment he proposed marriage （and was
accepted）. The third chart （below） is for the moment of his marriage: the event took place on a
dull day, yet, as he records, The Sun shone out just at tying the Nuptial Knor'.18 So far as the
astrology of the moment was concerned, Jeake had done his work well: it was a propitious chart
for matrimony, and there was only one darkling planet that might pose a threat. 19 However, our
interest does not lie in the success or otherwise of the marriage, but in certain details of che
chart itself.
Almost all che interesting details are found in the inner quadrate. The top word Ric relates to
the place, Rye, where the couple were married - and, indeed, where they lived. The date, Martii.
1°.1680号（1 March 1681）， is written
in the form designed to show that
this date is given according to the
Julian calendar, at a time when the
Gregorian calendar had been widely
？
accepted in the rest of Europe. The
time, 9b. 35.a.m.， is recorded with
Sio
practised precision: at 9:35 AM，
Jupiter would be rising - an import-
48.12.2，
Mailti.1:168g
ant beneficial astrological factor, for
gfgs'a.m：
planets near the ascendant are gener-
ally believed to exert their influence
over the entire chart. The words Poli
Altitudo 51 g. （altitude of the Pole 51
SBRfdana
degree） is the approximate equivalent
of latitude: Rye is actually on 50.57
《
North.20
4.
The fifth line raises so many inter-
esting questions that I will come to
86
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
it after dealing with the final line, which runs Ex Epb. Lilliana. This latter is an abbreviation
indicating that the data in the chart have been abstracted from the ephemerides published by
William Lilly. The data of the fifch line are represented mainly in sigillic form. This translates，
Moon （moring） from oppusition to Jupiter land moving） touards square of Mars. The importance of
this line is that it records Jeake's attempt to ensure chat the Moon is not Void of Course'， a
term used of a planet （particularly the Moon） when it is not forming an aspect during its
journey through the rest of the sign wherein it is placed. A planet void of course is claimed to
indicate that the business in hand will come to no good. As William Lilly wrote in a book
with which Jeake was familiar, do you carefuly observe whether she be void of course yea or
no; you shall seldom see a business go handsomely forward when she is so'.21 What is of
interest to the historian of astrology is that this term is properly used only in relation to horary
questions. This chart may well have been an 'election' - that is, a chart drawn up to elect a
propitious moment for the marriage - but it could not have been a horary chart, raised in
response to a question. The fact that Jeake inserts this void of course data in all the charts
known to us suggests that he is applying rules proper to horary astrology both to personal
horoscopy and to elections.22 The implication - not confined to the horoscopy of Jeake - is that
the boundaries between horary and genethliacal astrology had become blurred in the
seventeenth century.
Later, when contemplating his marriage horoscope, Jeake did not appear to be especially
happy. In his diary he related the chart to his own natus, and saw in the new relationship some
good, some bad. The planet Jupiter, which he undoubtedly elected to be rising over the
horizon so that it would bring success to the marriage, is, as he admits， 'cadent detrified &
opposed by the Moon'.23 He saw other aspects, involving Mars, as a threat to children of the
marriage （a threat which was actually realised）. However, having listed the pros and cons of
the horoscope for which he was assuredly responsible, he rounded off his analysis in the spirit
of a business man who had cannily paid attention to Jupiter. He noted that, through the
marriage, he came into im mediate possession of about £800 of his wife's portion （dowry）， with
other sums to follow, as agreed. Time and again, in this diary the merchant overshadows the
astrologer.
One reason why I have begun this study of seventeenth-century astrology with an account of
an astrologer who is little known, other than to specialist historians, is that Jeake was entirely
representative of the best sort of astrology that was practised during that century. Because he
was a man of means, relieved from the day-to-day pressures that beset most seventeenth-
century professional astrologers, he had time to consider his charts, to ensure their accuracy，
and to reflect upon their meanings in a manner harassed professionals could normally ill afford.
Professionals were under different pressures, as the astrology of the period performed an
important social service. Astrologers were the popular - in some cases, the sole - recourse for
people going through what we would now call an emotional crisis. For a few pennies, a poor
villager could have access to a learned and skilled confidant, someone who would be able to
gguide the supplicant with a knowledge well beyond the confines of astrology itself. As we have
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
87
seen, the kinds of question brought to astrologers in the course of an average day are recorded
in the diaries of more than one English astrologer: the preserved charts and astro-readings
provide an illuminating insight into the troubles and injustices that beset the ordinary people
of the time. In some respects, justice was not always forthcoming for those of limited means, in
seventeenth-century courts. Illnesses all too frequently proved painful, were unrelieved by
narcotics, and serious ones were often fatal. Wars were conducted in a world almost bereft of
stable lines of communication, and even ordinary trade was subject to a multitude of vicissi-
tudes, including inclement weather, poorly built and poorly managed shipping, piracy and
unsafe roads. It was this level of insecurity in their lives which produced the troubled questions
that the common folk, the soldiers, sailors and traders brought to their counsellors, the
astrologers.
The increase in seafaring that occurred with the establishment and development of
the American colonies served to intensify the need for horoscopy. The Atlantic crossing
was especially dangerous, and many horoscopes have survived dealing with questions relating
to journeys by sea, between the colonies and the West Indies. Francis Crow, who wrote
critically against astrology, pointed to the widespread dependence on the art among seamen.
He spoke from experience, for he had spent some years on Jamaica - in his opinion an island
'too much addicted to Judicial Astrology' - and he had observed with chagrin that sailors
seldom set out to Sea without consulting the Oracle of a Star-gazing Astrologer for lucky
Dayes, and happy Stars'.24 John Gadbury was sufficiently aware of the needs of the island to
publish a special table of houses， 'to serve the Meridian and Horoscope of Port-Royal'， the
island's capital.25
There is no reason to believe that the seafarers of Jamaica were any different from those in
other places, but it is interesting that the capture of the island from the Spanish in 1655
became something of a cause celebre among English astrologers. The astrologers were excited by
the fact that the taking of the island, by Admirals Penn and Venables, was viewed, from an
astrological standpoint, as marking the birth date of the new English colony there.26
There seem to have been no types of horoscope that were not called for by a society under
such expansive tensions, and beset by religious strife. The most popular astrologer, if by no
means the best in terms of proficiency, was William Lilly, who （Like most jobbing astrologers）
cast charts of the horary kind to discover lost objects, hidden treasures, the whereabouts of
murdered bodies, the truths behind lovers' claims, the destiny of souls thought to have been
lost at sea or in war. At the same time, he would turn his hand to casting charts for famous
people, including Charles I and Charles II and, during the Civil War and Interregnum, of
Cromwell and his followers, with whom he had sided
It was an age when virtually all educated men had some knowledge of astrology, and one in
which most individuals took its doctrines seriously. We cannot believe everything that William
Lilly wrote in his Autobiograpby, yet it is evident that he must have cast well over two thousand
charts a year. Lily was a big fish, but he was only one fish in a well-stocked pond. It was an age
when the demand for astrology, as a way of revealing cosmic patterns and spiritual meanings，
88
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
far outstripped its resources, and made a fertile ground for charlatans, as the lament of William
Ramesey, quoted at the head of this chapter, suggests.
The impulse towards popularisation, encouraged by such men as Lilly and John Gadbury，
was perpetuated well into the century by those whom they taught or influenced. So rich is
this period in astrology that it is especially difficult to represent its breadth and depth by
reference to a handful of horoscopes. However, if we are to attempt to set down the spirit of the
art implicit in this popularisation, then it is right to say that seventeenth-century astrology，
for all its involvement in codifications and meaningful obscurantism, represented an honest
attempt, by a small number of astrologers, to reject those elements in the Ptolemaic tradi-
tion that had proved wanting, with an eye to reforming their art. This unexpected impulse，
towards what we might loosely call a 'scientific' approach, may have been part and parcel of
the intellectual ethos of the period, but it was one that was to lend a distinctive quality to
some of the horoscopes produced in that century. Shortly, we shall glance at some of the more
enduring names among those astrologers who were inclined to promote a reformation of
their art.
The use of astrological references in both drama and literature, which had been one of the
hallmarks of sixteenth-century culture, continued alive and well throughout most of the
following century. The poet John Dryden had been deeply interested in astrology and his
knowledge of the art spilled over into his poetry and plays, peppering their texts with allusions
that are sometimes opaque to those who have not studied the subject.27 In this, Dryden was
not much different from other scholars and writers of his age, for, as the historian Kenneth
Young has pointed out, the men of the sixteenth century could be at once astrologers and
believers in experimental science.28 However, even in the sixteenth century, few poets would
prepare to write a major opus （such as Annus Mirabilis） by casting a horoscope to determine a
suitable time to begin the work.29
Dryden was a sufficiently skilled horoscopist to predict from the chart of his eldest son，
Charles, that the latter would meet an accidental death in his thirty-third year. The prophecy
proved correct: in the predicted year （1704）， Charles was drowned at Datchet while swimming
across the Thames.
The horoscope of the poet himself has survived in two manuscripts in the Bodleian.30 They
both present compelling evidence of Dryden's interest in the art, as the Sun is in 26.17 Leo and
therefore in the astrologer's arc （see pages 182-3）. The most powerful thing in the chart （at
least for a modern astrologer） is the conjunction of the Moon （23.55 Taurus） with Pluto （23.48
Taurus）， both in close square to the Sun. The contact between the Moon and Pluto can often
bring an interest in matters of the occult, and even make the native sensitive to paranormal
experiences - as Dryden undoubtedly was at times.
While the sixteenth century had seen the heyday of crypto-horoscopy, this art did survive
into the seventeenth century. A good example is from the middle of the century, even if it
does refer to horoscopic conditions in the previous one. In the engraving of 1651, on the
opposite page, Ptolemy is shown leaning back beneath the pans of a balance which is held
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
89
Zocci mndi
Ctdeieructat ued
UKenmu
scenting
90
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
by Urania （her body studded with stars, and the zodiacal belt as her cincture）， the
personification of astrology. 1 Each pan depicts a cosmic system, that of Copernicus on the left，
and that of Tycho Brahe to che right. In the skies, on either side of the hand of God （identified
by the Hebrew） are putti, symbolic of the planets. With the exception of the Sun, the planets in
their hands are designed to reveal the truths shown by the telescope. To the right, the curious
form in the hands of the top putto is intended to represent Saturn and its rings. The second
putto down, representing Jupiter, holds a globe that reveals the distinctive striations, and its
satellites.
From our point of view, the interesting thing is that amid this plethora of symbols that seem
to flatter astronomy, the circular diagram at the feet of Urania, representing the concentric orbs
of the Prolemaic system, seems to be a crypto-horoscope. If we conceive the figure in reverse （as
it would have been engraved）， then it is very close to representing the appearance of the heavens
in November 1543.
On 24 November of that year, the Moon was in conjunction with Jupiter, as indicated in the
spheres diagram. With one small exception, che disposition of the planets was exactly as shown
below.
m
f0
Reading from left to right, Mars was in Libra, Jupiter was in 18 Scorpio （with the Moon），
Saturn was in 26 Scorpio, the Sun was in the next sign, Sagittarius. As indicated in the spheres，
Mercury and Venus were in the same sign, but the order should be reversed for the entire
sequence of planets to marry completely with the representation in the spheres diagram. It is
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
91
tempting to believe that the disposition of the planets was intended to point to the year 1543：
this was not only the year in which Copernicus died, but it was also the year in which his long-
awaited De Revolutionibus was finally published.
The seventeenth century was a dynamic period for astrology, especially in England. During
that century the favoured method of house division changed, both in England and on the
Continent. The finest house tables had been inherited from the sixteenth century and were
usually based on those attributed to Regiomontanus, but had actually been developed in the
eleventh century. 32 The initial popularity of these tables was due mainly to the activities of
the seventeenth-century English astrologer, John Partridge, who wrote in favour of both the
Placidean house system itself, and of the system of directions favoured by Placidus.
One cannot explore seventeenth-century astrology for long without encountering Placido de
Titis, the supposed designer of the Placidean house system, which, until recently, dominated
modern astrology. He was a monk, a professor of mathematics at Pavia University, and personal
astrologer to Archduke Leopold William of Austria. Although his influential system of house
division has been criticised by many astrological practitioners and mathematicians, it was
widely used during and after the mid-seventeenth century. 33 One rarely noted influence which
Placidus exerted on seventeenth-century horoscopy was his teaching that aspects were not
themselves influenced by the signs in which the relevant planets were found - rather, they were
to be calculated in terms of the 360 degree circle, as though the signs had no meaning. This
teaching was in contrast to the well-established tradition, which tended to interpret aspects in
terms of elemental factors, derived from the signs. It is certainly one of the characteristics of
seventeenth-century horoscopy that it concentrated upon aspects to the detriment of the
influence of planets-in-signs, which are nowadays so much in vogue.
The astrologers of the seventeenth century collected horoscopes on a much wider scale than
those of the sixteenth century. Many of these collections have been published, but a great
number still remain in archives and public libraries, in manuscript form. Among these is a
manuscript in the Bodleian collection, dated 1677.34 It comprises an astonishing array of
charts, which includes those for Tycho Brahe, Robert Burton, John Dee, Kenelm Digby, John
Dryden （cast by John Gadbury）， John Evelyn （cast by Henry Coley）， Matthew Hales, Edmund
Halley, Thomas Hobbes, Wenceslas Hollar, Robert Hooke, Titus Oates, William Penn （the
Quaker reformer and colonist who founded Pennsylvania）， William Petty, Philip Sidney, and
Christopher Wren. The collection included a version of Brounker' sixteen-house chart, with a
rwelve-house variant, both containing fixed stars. 3 Overleaf, I give the charts of William Penn
and of the Czech artist, Wenceslas Hollar, based on data culled from this manuscript. The
charts will be welcomed by historians, as the time of Penn's birth does not appear otherwise on
record and even the day of Hollar's birth has been recorded as unknown by some art
historians.36
The seventeenth century saw the introduction into horoscopy of an entirely new range of
aspects. Ptolemy had written of five aspects, and these had been in use for many centuries.
However, by the mid-seventeenth century, these five were being called the 'Old Aspects'， or
92
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
Mc 11'52
Mc 1611
$
H
d
21
57
43
18
36
21
43
5°
E
51
49
59
亻
P
4
d
'Asc
0519
3
1914
Asc
＄ 4
108
◎128
William PENN
Wenceslaus HOLLAR
m
17 18
7
*
h
24
14
*
"
⅔
刈
'Radiations'. This term seems to have been introduced after the mathematician, John Kepler，
proposed the adoption of two new aspects, the Semisextile （or Dodectile） and Quintile. By the
last quarter of the century, a further six aspects had been described and added to the new pair.
In place of sigils, the new aspects were usually represented by letters or abbreviations.37
Biquintile ［Bq.］
144 degrees
Decile ｛dcc.］
36°
Quincunx［Vc.］
150 degrees
Quintile ［Q］
72°
Semiquadrate ［S］
45 degrees
Semisextile ［SS］
30°
Sesquiquadrate ［SSg｝
135 degrees
Tredecile ［Td］
108°
To these we can add the ‘whimsical Aspects'， of Octiles, Vigintiles, Quindreiles， 'and the
like'， which the English astrologer, Joshua Childrey, wanted to get rid of in 1652.38
With so many aspects now available, seventeenth-century horoscopy was beginning to take
on a visible complexity that would probably have worried Prolemy and his followers.
Statistically, it had reached a point where it was virtually impossible for a planet not to be in
aspect with at least one other planet. In many cases, single planets were involved in a whole
bevy of aspects, which required great perseverance to combine their influences meaningfully
within a reading.
The predictive side of astrology was especially open to the researches of reformers. There
seemed to be few doubts that horoscopic prediction was possible - the only argument was about
which of che many techniques available had proved to be the best. Setting aside the vexing
questions of what precisely one meant by the term day' or 'year'， and dismissing the issues
surrounding which of the great circles should be used in astrological prediction, the most
popular systems were those involving the so-called day for a year' method of progressions. The
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
93
majority of predictive methods of this kind required conversion of time measured against the
rotation of the earth to sidereal time （or stellar time）. It was for this reason that standard books
on astrology furnished conversion charts - tables for Right Ascension, calibrated against
zodiacal time. Equally popular as a predictive technique was that of solar returns - the
revolution charts of the kind we examined in Chapter 2 - which involved casting a chart for
the moment the Sun returns to its original natal longitude in the year under scrutiny.
The large number of ephemerides published in the seventeenth century should not blind us
to the difficulties that contemporary astrologers experienced in obtaining accurate tables, as a
basis for their computations. It is true that, as the century progressed, these tabulations were
improved, yet they never attained the reliability of modern tables. Even as late as 1780, the
first American eclipse expedition - mounted under Samuel Williams to study the total eclipse
of the Sun in 4.55 Scorpio, on 27 October at Penobscot, Maine - was unable to locate the path
of totality due to che unreliability of the tables at their disposal.39
Not so much a problem for seventeenth-century astrologers themselves yet often a serious
difficulty for historians is the variety of different time systems in use in that century. In some
systems, the twenty-four-hour day was conceived as beginning at noon; in others it began at
sunrise. In yet other systems, the time was given as AM, with the difference subtracted from
the noon-time - which in theory was always mcasured as local noon-time, and therefore a great
variable, from city to city. Indeed, throughout Europe there seems to have been no consensus as
to what an hour really was. The monastic system of dividing the day into two periods, one
beginning at sunset and ending at sunrise, and the other beginning at sunrise and running
through to sunset, persisted in various astrological systems. The first twenty-four-hour clock
built in Brirain was that constructed by Dutch clockmakers in 1386. Even this northern
horologium was called the Italian Clock'， since the day it marked ended and began at 'dusk’ -
that is to say, half an hour after sunset, in the Italian manner. Since dusk is a variable
phenomenon, this was a most unreliable time, even though, at Westminster, it was at least
measured by the last of the twenty-four strokes of the bell which marked the half-hour after
sunsCt.
I mention this fourteenth time system because it persisted for some centuries, and figures in
many horoscopes of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The astrological tradition of
planetary hours （see page 117） was initially dependent upon this monastic division of day and
night into two periods of twelve 'hours'， the so-called "artificial' divisions. In this system, the
nocturnal series were rarely of the same duration as the diurnal.40
There are no available tabulations designed to unravel the complex differences in time
systems and the only arbiter is experience, and knowledge of history and chronologies. In some
cases it is still difficult for astrologers to determine which time system was used. For example，
even as late as the early nineteenth century, nautical records in ships' logs still adhered to a
dating period that was twelve hours in advance of official calendar time. Thus the battle of
Trafalgar, which was fought in the afternoon of 21 October 1805, is recorded in the log of
HMS Victory as having been fought on the 22nd.41 According to such naval records, Nelson
94
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
died on the latter date, yet if an astrologer computing the great seaman's death chart were
unwittingly to use this date, he or she would construct inaccurate charts. On the day of that
historically significant battle, there were five planets in Libra - Moon, Mercury, Sun, Saturn
and Uranus. On the fatal afternoon of that same day, Saturn （20.12 Libra） was on the Mercury
（19.47 Libra） of Nelson's birth chart.42
William Lilly's book, Christian Astrology, based on a wide familiarity with traditional
matetial as expounded by continental astrologers, had a refreshing influence on the develop-
ment of the art in the seventeenth century. It was the first serious attempt in English to set out
the rules of astrology in a manner that could be understood by all those possessed of a modi-
cum of mathematics. However, Lilly appears not to have been particularly interested in reform：
he worked easily and competently with the techniques inherited from the Ptolemaic tradition.
Perhaps, like others, he recognised the shortcomings of the available tables, but he showed
little interest in reforming che welter of traditions available to him.
Lilly was not alone: few astrologers of this period saw the need for a reform of the art, and
even fewer actually committed themselves to participating in such reform. Even so, the names
and works of a small group of reforming astrologers have survived. 43 Lilly's arch-enemy, John
Gadbury was the most famous of those who became involved in the reformation of astrology.
The obscure ecclesiastic Joshua Childrey carried reformation so far that it went beyond the
comprehension of most practising astrologers. Dr Francis Bernard dedicated a great deal of his
time attempting to establish a relationship between astrology and various social mutations （see
Pages 108-9）.
John Goad's incessant search for patterns in human behaviour, epidemics, misfortune and
the weather, led him to keep a detailed diary for about thirty years - a record which he
extended backwards to 1500 by means of events recorded by others. His undertaking was
nothing less than a sophisticated - and ultimately unrewarded - experiment in astrology, for
by means of his detailed records he sought to establish earthly patterns, the meaning of which
（he believed） lay in celestial patterns. In his attempts to develop a new kind of astrology, which
had relevance to earthly mutations, Goad must have been the most advanced of all those
seventeenth-century astrologers intent on reforming the art.44 Goad's published work is
densely packed with information, but from our point of view it is disappointing: while it
contains much data, and involved a great deal of horoscopy, it is not illustrated with
horoscopes. The historian, Keith Thomas, has rightly noted that John Goad was one of the
earliest writers to observe that suicide rates vary according to the time of year.45
Experimentation is the key to understanding the best seventeenth-century astrology.
Some astrologers of the period developed experimental attitudes that questioned and breached
many of the Ptolemaic traditions and, in some cases, resulted in graphic forms for which
interpretative keys have been lost.46 For example, the experimental basis for the quadrate chart
with sixteen houses is now hard to fathom, unless its origins are to be found in the charting
of crises, an approach used by doctors familiar with astrological principles. If the horoscope
cast by Brouncker （the future first President of the Royal Society） for Charleton （the future
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
95
President of the College of Physicians） had been
provided with explanatory notes, then these
Y
*
have been lost. All that remains is an in-
triguing astrological mystery.47
d
z七
19
3
•¥
In the absence of explanations, it is
。
quite impossible to establish how
Brouncker would have interpreted
Ev
the chart, from a translated ver-
4下153
WALTER CHARLETON
252
sion, copied from a standard chart
27'04
horoscope cast by
BROUNCKNER
cast by Brouncker （right）.48 We
Reduced from sixteen houses
shall examine certain of the
to the traditional twelve.
experimental attitudes behind
12 February 1620
12:18 PM
seventeenth-century astrology in
32
some of the following sections. Before
1
looking at some sample charts, it will
忙
be as well for us to examine a seventeenth-
century chart in detail to see something of the
nature of the horoscopy of the period.
Few seventeenth-century horoscopes have been subjected to the same depth of analysis as
that of King Charles I of England, who had been born in 1600.In 1659, Gadbury published a
book which dealt solely with the horoscope of the unfortunate King.49 Besides providing the
natal chart, his survey included a number of annual revolutions, and a death chart for the
moment the King was beheaded in Whitehall, in 1649. Overleaf is the natus, alongside the
death chart, cast by John Gadbury.
The depth of Gadbury's analysis reveals very cleatly the nature of seventeenth-century
astrology. It is typical of that period's charting that some of the words in the figure are in
English, others in Latin, and yet others in Greek. The poorly penned Greek in the third house
is meant to spell out Mupos Kouraparos （Little lance-bearer）， which is one of the names for
Spica. Perhaps, in this case, Gadbury was displaying his learning, for the version of the name
was rare, having come into astrology by way of a recent study by Ismaelis Boulliau of the
fourteenth-century astronomer Georgius Chrysococca.30 It is not easy to determine why
Gadbury inserted the name: in 1600, Spica was in 18.12 Libra, and thus nowhere near either
the cusp of the third, or the Moon, as Gadbury had claimed.51 The Latin at the bottom of the
inner quadrate （ai vac.nd * O. really belongs to the horary tradition, yet it had become
usual during the seventeenth century for astrologers to insert such data in genethliacal figures.
The abbreviated and sigillated line indicates that the Moon was without aspect at the moment
of birth, but was moving towards a sextile with the Sun.
Gadbury's analysis of the King's chart is prefaced by a complete speculum of all factors of
importance in the horoscope. Alongside the horoscope he furnished a list of the antiscia （the
singular of which is antiscion）， the contra-antiscia, and a fairly complete speculum for the birth
96
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
8 14.28.5
<
另*
126.4.5
$•23.35.
&
◎
2.3•55•
水
CHARLS larc King
of England, born
3:51.IS.
24.59.20.
1600.Nov.1g d. 10b.
6
K. CHARLS
Beheaded，
2m1.35J. P.M.
Jan.30.1648.
Sub Lat. s6 deg.
59-20
2b.4m.T.M.
avas.ad*o.
3•51.I5.
4 g. R.
◎
9
B.
m.9 7
￥934
19
心
S14•28vP
chart. Gadbury uses the word antiscion in its Ptolemaic sense, as being the cosmic reflection，
across the axis of Cancer-Capricorn, of any given planet, or node. Because, in the natal chart of
the King, Saturn is in 6.7 Scorpio, its antiscion is 23.53 Taurus. One observes that the antiscia
are not tenanted places - no bodies occupy the degrees indicated. At best, they may be regarded
as shadow areas, or reflections, even though the influential Italian astrologer, Antonio Bonattis，
wrote of the planetary antiscion degree as "vibrating' to the planet it mirrored.52
Gadbury's charting lists the major directions of the ascendant, MC, Sun, Moon and Fortuna，
for every year of the King's life. It is this listing of important directions for every such year，
which reveals why Gadbury had been so careful to list the antiscia and contra-antiscia for the
chart. In seventeenth-century astrology, directions to these were considered to be of the greatest
importance in the unfolding of planetary and nodal potential.
Gadbury also adds a diagram that would make little sense to a modern astrologer, but which
was a fairly run-of-the-mill diagram in his day. This is a list of point systems for the fortitudes
of the planets in the horoscope. It had become a commonplace for textbooks on astrology to
display tables of Essential Dignities'， similar to the one above （see entry for Dignity in the
Glossary）. The assessment of the dignities that could be accorded to a planet was among the
most complex of all operations in late medieval astrology, and we are fortunate that the entire
system was so thoroughly reformed in later centuries as to be virtually banished from modern
practice. Dignities could be calculated according to sign position, placing within the horoscope
（relative to angles, and also to specific houses）， and in accordance with certain divisions of signs
（sometimes called faces, and at other times decans）， as well as specific degrees, as exaltations. In
addition, there were dignities if the planet was in its own sign - for example, when the Sun was
in Leo. The planets could also be strong in other ways - for example, when swift in motion, in
beneficient angles with the benefics （Jupiter and Venus）， and in close conjunction with
beneficient fixed stars. Balanced against these plus points were a number of negatives. For
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
97
example, chere were detriments and falls for the planets, which detracted from the values of the
dignities. For example, the Sun was in detriment in Aquarius, and in its fall in Libra- the sign
Opposite to Aries, where it was strong by virtue of being in its own house, and so on. In some
astrological systems, specific points were given for each essential dignity, and points were
subtracted for the dcbilities, such as detriments and falls. It is this point system that is
demonstrated in Gadbury's simple analytical figure （above）. Mars scores the most points （or
'testimonies'）， for the planet is in its own term （25-30 Sagittarius）， it is exactly cuspal to the
fifth, trine to the ascendant, and so on.
Jupicer is Lord of che Eighth Houles as he go-
verns the Filhes which defcend chereon, and he is
in we in his detriment.. But & being Lord of the
Fourth, and having Triplicity in the Eighth,and in
Quartile to 1 alfomay be admitted Anareta， （c.i.） He was
fxed Scar of the hrlt magnitude ; which is onc te- death:many
Miniony of a volent death. The Lord of the Eighth arguments
fguared by d，.and rhe Eiglth Houfe alfo, from a thereof.
violent Sign,is anocher argument of a violent
death. Cor Leonis, or the heart ofthe Lyon in the
Afcendent, and Capur eAkgol in che Tenth Houfe；
Venss Lady of the Tenth, in d wich 3,in Dof 1，
and h catting an & co che Tenth from fixed Sigus
are molt affurcd arguments of a violent death.
From the long and detailed analysis of the chart, the most informative reading is that relating
to the judgements made concerning the eighth house, which has the popular title the House of
Death'. Gadbury gives no fewer than four good astrological reasons why Charles should have
met a violent end （above）. 33 These are set out in the language of seventeenth-century astrology，
and, to be fully appreciated, require a commentary.
First, Jupiter is Lord of the Eight House .'. After making the point that Jupiter is weak （in
its detriment） because it is in Virgo, Gadbury turns to the square between Mars and Jupiter: it
is this aspect that forms the background to his claim that Mars is the killing planet, or anaretic.
With Mars in 26.10 Sagittarius and Jupiter in 19.15 Virgo, the orb of 7 degrees would be
regarded by most modern astrologers as pointing to a weak square. However, in terms of
seventeenth-century astrology, this orb is quite acceptable. Again, in modern terms, Mars （in
26.10 Sagittarius） could not itself be said to have "triplicity' in the eighth. However, what
Gadbury claimed is that the sign Scorpio, which Mars rules, was in the same triplicity （chat is，
98
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
the Water triplicity） as the eighth-house cusp: this allegiance is sufficient to reflect on Mars，
and draw its influence to the House of Death.
Second, The Lord of the Ascendent is in Sagittarius .... Gadbury makes much of the fact
chat the Sun （Lord of the ascendant） is with the violent star, Cor Scorpii. However, he did not
indicate graphically the position of this star in his chart. Better known nowadays as Antares, it
was in 4.08 Sagittarius during 1600.54 This means that it was almost four degrees from the
Sun （8.02 Sagittarius） - an orb too wide for modern acceptance, yet one that satisfied
seventeenth-century horoscopists.' For Gadbury, the contact would imply a violent end: the
star is renowned for causing headstrong behaviour, which leads to the native's own undoing.
The third conglomerate， "The lord of the Eighth squared by Mars ...'， is seen by Gadbury as
yet a further indication of a violent end. The square between Mars and Jupiter is mentioned a
second time, but in the context of the eighth house being ruled by a 'violent Sign'. While this
last term is scarcely ever used in modern astrology, it does appear in many seventeenth-century
texts. Technically, a violent sign is one that is the house or exaltation of a malefic planet. Now
Sagittarius （in which Mars is placed） is not itself a violent sign, even though it is true that
Mars squares the eighth house: it is possible that Gadbury is reflecting on the fact that the
eighth house is associated with Scorpio, the eighth in the zodiacal sequence, which is a violent
sign.
The fourth conglomerate, Cor Leonis, or the heart of the Lyon ..'， relies heavily on a
reading of fixed stars. Gadbury tells us that Cor Leonis is on the ascendant: indeed, he has
marked the cusp with the Greek name for the star, BaoAIKO5, meaning ruler' or 'king'. As he
admits, in another part of the analysis， 'the Regal Star Basiliskas, or heart of the Lyon... ［is］
directly Horoscopical’.36 In 1600, Cor Leonis （now usually called Regulus） was in 24.12 Leo，
and chus in the same degree as Charles' ascendant. In the stellar tradition, the star brings great
honours and wealth, but final violence. Having pointed to this incipient violence, Gadbury
then refers to the most violent star in che skies - that is, to Algol （Caput Alg.'） in the tenth
house. In 1600, Algol was in 20.39 Taurus, and over 11 degrees from the cusp of the tenth：
however, in the seventeenth century, the presence of such a powerful star in a house was seen as
irradiating that house with its stellar influence. Developing on this dire placing, and in order
to illustrate its ramifications throughout the chart as a whole, Gadbury points out that the
Lady of the tenth house （that is, Venus, ruler of Taurus） is conjunct with the malignant Mars
（itself in square with Jupiter）. This same tenth-house cusp is under further pressure from the
malign Saturn （in the violent sign, Scorpio）， which is in opposition （6.07 Scorpio） to the tenth
cusp, in 9.17 Taurus. After something of an astrological over-kill, Gadbury affirms that these
factors offer an assured argument for a violent death.3
As we have seen, Gadbury had already offered his readers a glimpse into the King's future by
way of directions, for each year of the King's life. Once he had completed his analysis of the
radical chart, Gadbury turned his attention to the other favoured technique for investigating
the future - the use of revolution charts. He drew up and published revolutions for each of the
last eleven years of the King's life. Gadbury does not say whence he derived the time for the
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
99
execution of the King. However, the time is not exactly the same as that mentioned by modern
historians.58
It is a curious fact that for all the care he exercised in marshalling the astrological evidence
for the life and death of his King, Gadbury missed the most surprising thing about the death
chart. At the time of death he gave, the Moon was in 22 Capricorn. This was precisely the
degree of the antiscion of the Sun, in che radical horoscope. In spite of this, Gadbury's extensive
reading of the chart offers one of the most thorough and representative examples of horoscopy
in the seventeenth century.
The following selection of charts, intended as representative of seventeenth-century
astrology, falls lamentably short of this purpose mainly because the century was so rich in its
astrologies and horoscopy: perhaps as many as sixty charts would be insufficient to illustrate the
variety of horoscopy in this astonishing period. Given the space, I would have chosen to include
the chart of Wallenstein, drawn up by the great Johann Kepler. This chart, and its extensive
reading （with annotations by Wallenstein）， is notable for several reasons: it throws light on
Kepler's own approach to astrology （for example, on his disdain of houses）， and it is one of those
rare charts that was rectified at the request of the native.59 Wallenstein knew enough about
astrology to realise that the original time he had given Kepler was inaccurate, when measured
against events. Accordingly, in 1624, he returned the horoscope to Kepler, asking him to
amend it so as to accommodate predictions, then in error by one or two years. The amendment
was only 6 minutes and 30 seconds, yet this was sufficient to satisfy both the astrologer and his
client.
Again, had space permitted, I would have elected to incorporate many more charts by
William Lilly - for example, the eclipse charts for the Dark Year of 1652, that of 11 August
1645, in which he predicted the death of Charles 1, and at least one of his many charts for mock
Suns, which Lilly connected （by macrocosmic analogy） with rebellion against the Crown.60 I
would have dealt with several of the charts mentioned in passing by Ashmole, in his diaries -
for example, the intriguing horoscope he cast, at 6:08 AM on 18 December 1681, for the rat
talisman he had constructed to protect the kitchen of his neighbours, the Tradescants, from the
vermin - or, even the more conventional （though none the less remarkable） charts discussed by
one modern historian in an article on the golden age of predictive astrology.61
Perhaps of greater interest to the historian is the wide range of figures available in the text
mentioned by John Aubrey in a letter to Anthony Wood, regarding his collection of nativities
of learned men, which he and Ashmole were assimilating from as many as forty earlier
works on astrology.62 I would also have enjoyed analysing the elaborate charts of the
herbalist-astrologer, Nicholas Culpeper, alongside interesting modern attempts to rectify
the same figure. Of special interest in Culpeper's chart was his appearance in court, on
17 December 1642, on a charge of witchcraft. His natal chart, and the progressions for this
painful time, are reminders that the pursuit of astrology was conducted under the infamous
Witchcraft Statute of 1563, in which legal boundaries had been poorly drawn, and echoes of
which continued to resound in anti-fraud legislation, in Britain and North America, until the
100
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
rwentieth century.63 Another Culpeper chart I might have glanced at was that he cast for the
'Black Monday' solar eclipse of 29 March 1652, from which he argued the invasion of Europe
by the Turks, the fall of Kings and Popes and the introduction of a new order of things. G4
Culpeper was not the only doleful prophet of the times, and we have a delightful vignette of
terrified souls sealing up windows with pitch and cowering under their bedclothes as the time
of the eclipse drew near.o The charts of Culpeper would also have given us an opportunity to
examine the so-called Decumbiture charts' - those cast for illnesses, often employing the
eight-house system of houses, related not to the twenty-four hours of solar motion, but to the
lunar crisis 'hours'.66 To cover another interesting approach of seventeenth-century astrology, I
would have elected to study in detail the heliocentric charting of William Hunt, who was
intent on producing what he purposely called diagrams'， which were horoscopes according to
the Copernican system - a late development of the methods espoused by Childrey. 6 In
Particular, I would have enjoyed discussing the diagram Hunt cast for 'sunset’ （properly
speaking, of course, in a heliocentric system this should be 'earth-rise'） on 11 June 1695.68
I have discussed only two charts from che rich manuscript tradition （see pages 114-16）. Had
opportunity presented itself, I would also have elected to reproduce and discuss at least fifty of
these, as being useful for the astrologer and for the historian, the latter of whom is generally
unaware of these treasure-troves of data, so relevant to seventeenth-century history.
SOME HOROSCOPES OF WILLIAM LILLY
There are few well-executed portrait paintings of the seventeenth century that include
horoscopes. However, one exception is the anony mous picture in the Ashmolean, Oxford，
which portrays the astrologer William Lilly holding in his left hand the revolution chart for his
forty-fifth year. The horoscope is quadrate, and in the inner square are the two Latin words, non
cognunt. The words, adopted by Lilly as his personal motto, are from a phrase of some antiquity，
meaning "The Stars do not compel’. The truncated phrase is imbued with the refreshing notion
that although we may read in nativities the outlines of a person's fate, there is, somewhere, a
freedom from this seeming determinism, and the human will is not a mere figment of the
imagination.o
William Lilly was one of the more colourful astrologers of this colourful and tortured
century. He was born in a thatched cottage in Diseworth, Leicestershire, the son of a land-
owning farmer. The timber-frame house still survives, across the road from the thirteenth-
century Church of St Michael and All Angels, where Lilly was christened, within days of his
birth, on 1 May 1602. One version of the horoscope is given opposite, carefully framed in the
house system of Regiomontanus, which L.illy recommended to his students.70
The chart is from a collection published by Lilly's sparring partner, John Gadbury. In his
notes to the chart Gadbury claimed, rather spitefully, that Lilly hath pretended himself to have
two several Nativities'.71 This sentence alone reveals some of the animosity that existed
between the two most famous English astrologers of the century. They had been divided first
一
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
101
by politics, and then by the Civil War.
Lilly was a Parliamentarian - an
~
adherent of 'New Model Astrology'， as
2-50
one Royalist astrologer put it, rather
920
321453：
tartly. Gadbury was one of the King's
men.72 However, the tension between
Mt. william Lilly，
the two went much deeper than such
born axna 16o2.
political allegiances: unbeknownst to
Aprilso:I4b.8m。
¥ 4036
P. M.
④28.8/1≥
either of them, it was reflected in the
413•5•
为
Sub Elev. Poli szd
planetary tensions of their horoscopes.73
38m.Leicoflermjire
Lilly cast charts for almost every
Din 口1ad
stratum of society, and even acted as a
◎
19:16.
$
sort of roving propagandist for the
205-
心
Parliamentarians during the terrible
Civil War that tore in twain England，
16:23•
6
140$3•
and many English families. In one of
his astrological works, he famously
portrayed Oliver Cromwell as a bull: no disrespect was intended, for Cromwell was born with
Sun, Mercury and Venus in Taurus.74 Below is a reproduction of the bull hieroglyphic itself
alongside a chart for the birth of Cromwell, as cast by Gadbury, who ascribes to the Aries
ascendant 'this prodigious Natives Desire of Soveraignty and Rule, and of the Tyranny he used
when he ruled....75
7:36SS
Cliver Crommed，
$9
T20.2.8.
borp anno T$99
Orts）
on dApril24
418:17.8
156.46 m49J6，
929zz/
P.M.
Lat sz d. 19 m.
D立*1，adA%。
巧20.z.8.
s9
hix.IoR.，
6.
&
4I4 4
102
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
A good many of Lilly's horoscopes - especially those cast as horary charts - concerned the
lives of ordinary people, and reveal much about the fears and expectations of seventeenth-
century England. However, with the outbreak of the Civil War, Lilly began to expend a great
deal of his energy in support of the Parliamentarian cause against the King. During this time，
many of his charts and pamphlets were directed towards showing that Charles I would meet a
violent death.76
In reading the analyses of the horary readings, which Lilly published in several of his books, we
are left with a feeling that he enjoyed horary astrology much more than the exercise of genitures.
It is astonishing just how varied were the chart forms used in the sixteenth century -
especially so in connection with horary astrology. On the opposite page are six sample charts, all
cast by Lilly. Reading from left to right, and starting at the top, the charts relate to a question
of whether the husband or wife shall die first; a query as to the victor at the battle of Alsford, in
March 1644； a question whether a certain lady would marry the gentleman she desires; a query
as to whether Canterbury would be hanged or beheaded; a question as to whether or no a man
would obtain a certain parsonage he desired; and a question as to whether a sailor husband was
alive and, if so, when he would return home.77
Save in those cases where he is dealing with political issues （especially with questions arising
out of the Civil War） his analyses are without guile and are usually astrologically adroit. The
case with which he takes so complex a thing as a horoscope and subjects it to analysis, in order
to answer the questions of his clients is quite astonishing, and, in a lesser astrologer, might be
regarded with some suspicion.
Although some horary rules spilt over into genethliacal astrology, it would be foolish to
imagine that a horary chart might be subjected to a similar kind of analysis as a geniture. It
would be even more foolish to believe that, without the sort of notes that Lilly and certain of his
companions left regarding the horary art, a modern astrologer would be able to make sense of
most surviving horary charts. Horary astrology is rooted in a mesh of specialist astrological
laws, many of which now seem unbelievably complex.
For example, if we consider Lilly's ruminations on the question relating to the parsonage
（page 103, bottom left）， we see a type of astrology that is not only entirely foreign to that
practised in modern times, but also different from that practised in relation to sixteenth-century
genethliacal astrology. Lilly concluded that che man would not obtain the parsonage he sought.
He based this conclusion on several factors, some of which he lists and few of which would have
any value in modern horoscopy. For example, Mars is not Lord of the ascendant, and Moon is
not in the ninth. Saturn does not translate the light of Jupiter to Mars. There is no reception
between Jupiter and Mars. Furthermore, as the Moon is separating from a trine of Mars, and
applying to an opposition to Mercury, Lilly concluded that a letter, or information, would
shortly wholly destroy the querent's hopes. Events proved as Lilly had foreseen, and the man did
not obtain his desires.
Terms such as "translate the light'， and 'reception' were sometimes used in late medieval
genethliacal astrology, but they remain firmly entrenched as specialist terms in horary
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
103
4900
18＆
91
£9826
i9
3
6: Fel:1644
829 Mar
9
艹
z0:P:M
7:33：
1644
$p12:14
99 19.33
①a*01d3
1d8G*9
ad
2822
A
台20
品
庭
Q
0.26
2349
3
016.Sune
1646
19.2⑤$：0N
牛29:3.必
2:24 PM.
•hor:ahe.糕
StBn:aut.b
⑦azuc:ada
07e8：
Y
z2
3$0。
9
9
b2s：
10
1644
$2426
8.24P8
D4A9
haatsT
￥：3
20.00￥：
739 32
69
104
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
astrology.78 Translation of light' occurs when a light planet, such as Mercury, separates from a
heavier planet, such as Mars, to another heavy planet, such as Saturn. In this movement, the
lighter planet is said to "translate' （that is, carry） the virtue of the former planet to the latter.79
Reception' is a term used to denote the circumstance whereby two planets are in the sign of
each other's dignity: for example, when the Sun in Aries is in reception with Mars in Leo.80
Below, I shall examine another case history for a horary horoscope cast by William Lilly. Only
through examination of such case histories will we be able to glimpse just how abstruse are the
rules behind seventeenth-century horary astrology.
On 28 December 1644, a London merchant enquired of Lilly about the well-being of a ship -
was it 'sunk or living？' The resultant chart is given below. 81 This was the sort of question that
was frequently put to astrologers during the sixteenth century. It arose from the shortcomings of
the seventeenth-century insurance system, which would not provide cover for ships until there
was some danger that they were lost. Evidently, the merchant posing the question had been
unable to obtain insurance, as it was widely believed that all the vessels on that voyage had been
shipwrecked.
Lilly inspected the chart and came to the conclusion that the ship was not lost: it had been in
danger, but would shortly return.82 As he predicted, so it proved. The ship's affliction, or delay，
was signalled by the square of Saturn to the ascending degree. From Cauda, in the ninth house
（the house of long journeys）， Lilly concluded that she had suffered some affliction during her trip
-some bruise, leak or damage' near her breast - the place being indicated by Aries, occupied by
Saturn （Aries rules the face in the human being, but, in terms of horary charts, the front part or
prow of a ship）.
The Moon is the lady （or ruler） of the ascendant, and is strengthened by being in the sign of
her own exaltation. Furthermore she is under benevolent aspects of an applying trine （a trine in
process of construction） from both Sun
516.
49
and Moon. From this, he concluded that
~.
che ship, and all those who sailed on her，
would be safe.
In order to determine the present where-
1644 Die b.
abouts of the vessel, and whether there
28 December
would be news of it, Lilly next considered
2 20 P:M：
the placing of the Moon. She was in the
eleventh house, in a southern sign, but in
AShipat Sed
an eastern quarter of heaven, verging to-
◎
ifon~
wards the south. Her application to the
Hor:asti：
trine of Mercury （which planet was in a
south sign and near the western angle）
d
x
convinced Lilly that the ship was presently
•
south-west from London. It was 'upon our
+10mg
own coast, or near those which lie betwixt
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
105
Ireland and Wales'. Because the Moon was in the eleventh house （a place of retreat and comfort），
and in a fixed sign, Lilly judged it to be safe in harbour. Because the trine between Moon and
Mercury would shorly be exact （that is， 'partile）， he concluded that there would shortly be
news, or a letter - if not by that very night, then within two days. Such a letter did arrive, and
what he had claimed concerning the ship was shown to be correct.
As for the goods aboard che ship, Lilly looked into the second house, which marks finance and
substance. The Lord of the second house was the Sun （ruler of Leo）. Since the Sun was in
harmonious trine to the Moon, Lilly estimated that the merchant would not lose financially by
the venture. The antiscion of Jupiter falls in 9 degrees of Leo, the very Cusp of the second
house, while the antiscion of Mars falls upon the degree of the Ascendant: these two should be
taken as good testimonies of the safety of the vessel.
The Moon is applying to （that is, moving towards） Jupiter. The application of the Moon to
any fortunate planet gives reason for hope. By virtue of its rulership over Aquarius, Jupiter is
Lord of the tenth, which governs such matters as trade and commerce. Because Jupiter is
retrograde, Lilly recognises that the matter would be brought to an end relatively quickly, by
the approach of the Moon.As Lilly predicted, so it would happen.
THE HELIOCENTRIC CHARTS OF CHILDREY
In England, the most revolutionary of the seventeenth-century astrologers was Joshua Childrey，
born at Rochester on 20 October 1625. He was educated at Magdalen College, Oxford, and
worked for some years as a schoolmaster in Faversham. Eventually, he was appointed
Archdeacon of Salisbury Cathedral, later serving as the rector at Upwey （now Upway）， where he
died in 1670. Among his astrologer friends were Samuel Hartlib and Vincent Wing, of whom
we shall hear more later.83
In his short lifetime, Childrey gained some fame for a compilation of natural histories of
Britain, but it is his experiments with astrology that interest us here, and which reveal him to
be well ahead of his time. Among his most astonishing conclusions was that astrology should be
brought into line with post-Copernican astronomy, by replacing it with a heliocentric
horoscopy.84
Some historians claim that the earliest use of heliocentric positions in horoscopy was
undertaken by che eighteenth-century French astrologer, Henri de Boulainviller. Certainly，
Boulainviller was an original thinker, and an outspoken critic of Ptolemaic astrology: there is no
doubt that he regarded the theory of heliocentric planets as an entirely new astrological
doctrine, and one which he himself had discovered.8 However, it is a matter of historical record
that Joshua Childrey had personally experimented with the heliocentric system for some years
prior to 1653, when he published the first heliocentric charts, in an ephemeris. So satisfactory
were the results of these heliocentric experiments that Childrey recommended that all
horoscopes - whether genethliacal, horary, interrogational or revolutionary - should be cast in
the same manner.86
106
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
As far as I can tell, only four of Childrey's
heliocentric charts have survived:the one
否區5
900g
alongside, from the 1653 ephemeris, is
probably the earliest heliocentric horoscope
to have been published in Europe.87 Just for
Themd Calicum Amno
the record, the complex calculations for this
1652
chart were undertaken not by Childrey in
Decembris
person, but by his friend the mathematician
D.
H.
M.
Richard Fitzsmith, who Published an
IO.
13
47
almanac in 1654, and who was also a friend
QHo punio G ingredi-
$9
tr
of John Gadbury. 88
There is, of course, no Sun in the helio-
centric chart, but the planet Earth is repre-
8
sented, in the ninth house, by means of the
sigil O. In his earlier work on heliocentric
astrology Childrey had proposed that the
earth should be symbolised as a black circle.s In making this suggestion he was following the
post-Copernican tradition, as may be seen from the diagram of the world system of Tycho Brahe
（below）， which depicts the black-circle Earth at the centre of the Moon's orbit： .90 We have
already encountered a version of this Systema Mundanum Thyconicum in the left-hand pan of the
balance held by Urania in the image on page 89, above.
However, in the ephemeris of 1653, Childrey had adopted one of the alchemical sigils for the
Element Earth O, with the idea that this should represent the physical earth itself. In the same
chart （above）， the earth is depicted as being in the zero point of Cancer. The Latin at the foot of
che inner quadrate, Quo puncto © ingreditur 2, is an extension of the date and time above, and
means， 'at which point the Earth enters
Cancer'. The fact that the chart is illustrating
a view-point for beings on earth, of an event
that could not possibly be experienced on
earth, points to one of the inherent diffi-
culties with heliocentric charting.
One observes that the normal rules of
horoscopy are ignored in the chart. Venus
and Mercury revolve around the Sun. This
means that, in a geocentric chart, these three
bodies are limited in the extent of arc by
which they may deviate from each other.
This restriction does not apply in a helio-
centric chart. In the chart alongside, we see
Mercury in Capricorn and Venus in Virgo：
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
107
the Sun is not portrayed in a heliocentric chart, just as the Earth is not directly portrayed in a
geocentric. In both cases, Sun and Earth are to be visualised, respectively, as being at the centre
of the chart: sometimes, in heliocentric charts （and indeed, sometimes in geocentric ones） the
respective bodies are inserted diagrammatically, as a matter of form, but always at the centre of
the relevent charts.
Childrey's Syaygiasticon appears to be a slight work - an ephemeris, with ingress charts for the
four quarters - yet in terms of astrology it is one of the most remarkable ephemerides ever
published. The work proclaims an entirely new approach to astrology - not merely in terms of
the heliocentric method, but also in terms of a scientific methodology. Childrey proposes
setting up a history and chronology of all the signall occurrences in Empires, Kingdomes，
States, etc. with their times （as near may be） were with all convenient brevity digested into
Books'.91 These would form the basis for the checking of historic events against the new
heliocentric astrology which Childrey has proposed. Not only planetary considerations will be
weighed against this history. A list of previous eclipses， 'calculated for some ages past ... ［with］
their place in the Ecliptique'， should be compiled, and a history of comets should be written，
together with a list of all new Stars'， by which the cosmic effects may be measured against
earthly events.%2 In particular, Childrey recommends that all grand extremities of weather’ that
have been recorded by historians should also be gathered together and compared with the
Aspects of the heavenly bodies'.93
Childrey was entirely revolutionary - almost iconoclastic - in his approach to the art. In
effect, he recommended that the following staples of horoscopy be dispensed with, as
superfluous to his new heliocentric system: exaltations, triplicities, terms, faces, the Part of
Fortune, combustion, and retrograde motion. It is a tribute to Childrey's insight that four from
this list have been omitted from most modern astrologies, while retrogradation is now held as
being of questionable value in interpretation.94
The 'new' astrology left by Childrey's massive rejection of tradition would depend mainly on
a pair of interrelated aspects, planets in signs, and Lordships. Furthermore, astrologers would be
required to consider aspects to the Moon, which （he reminds us） has a different centre within
che heliocentric system. His most surprising deviation from tradition was his insistence that the
astrologer should predict from the conception chart, rather than from that cast for birth.
Finally, as the sample heliocentric chart above left indicates, Childrey would begin the year at
che winter solstice, rather than at the vernal equinox.
Childrey was particularly keen to establish the rhythms behind the movements of tides：
indeed, he was one of the first to realise that tides are governed by multiples or submultiples of
the tropical year.95
As we have seen, Childrey was not the only astrologer of the period to recognise that the
Ptolemaic astrology was in need of reform. Indeed, many intelligent men and women of the last
half of the century had concluded that astrology was essentially a pagan art. Furthermore, they
recognised that it was not 'scientific'， in the sense that it had never been subjected to
methodical testing. The word scientific had not yet acquired the near-deific connotation of
'
108
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
modern times, yet it was felt by many people - including astrologers - that the art was ripe for
a new examination, and that all those things which were found wanting should be relegated to
the scrap heap of history. Joshua Childrey was prepared to act on his ideas by attempting a
practical reform of the art.
A HOROSCOPE OF FRANCIS BERNARD
Among the seventeenth-century experimenters was Dr Francis Bernard, who concentrated on
the horoscopes of cities and whose work has survived in a number of collected nativities and
commentaries. One of these collections includes the chart which Bernard cast for the outbreak
of the Great Fire of London, which he dated to 1 September 1666, in the early hours of the
morning.%6
Bernard's technique was to treat cities as though they had a natural history and were, like
human beings, subject to "accidents'， or events. In this case, he was convinced that the Great
Fire was one of the accidentia arising from the chart he cast for the City of London.9 Just as it is
sometimes possible to construct a valid horoscope for a birch of unknown date and time, from a
study of che accidents encountered by the native, so, Bernard argued, it was possible to discover
the horoscope of a city, the chart of which was either forgotten or had never been established. He
constructed a history of fires in London, from 1212 onwards, and from this built up what he
regarded as a convincing chart of the
city.98 Curiously, he wrote to William
Lilly about his discovery only two years
before Lilly himself famously predicted
the Great Fire of 1666.
This 'prophecy' was made in the form
of a hieroglyphick' in which Lilly repre-
sented London as an image of Twins hang-
ing over a great fire. This woodcut was
rendered slightly arcane by Lilly's recog-
nition that London is ruled by Gemini，
the Twins." One really interesting thing
about this woodcut was that Lilly cun-
ningly placed alongside the Twins an
empty quadrate chart, suggesting that, in
time to come, someone would be able to
insert the planetary positions relating to
the conflagration that would destroy 436
acres of the city.
The horoscopic data from Bernard's
fire-diary （above） are derived from one of
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
109
*
d
28
25- 3
38
怂
56
11
35
25
◎
Asc
1048
WHITEHALL FIRE
372
4 January 1698
r
16
3:00 PM
為一段
P
30
6
17
22
422-2272
10
25
4
沙10一3
⑦0
5225-0
his manuscript notebooks now in the British Library.100 With the hindsight offered by history，
we may be inclined to examine the entry for 2 September 1666. However, we can learn more
from a lesser-known London fire, that which destroyed Whitehall in 1698 （above）. Bernard has
grouped the planets in a manuscript notation horoscope that was widely used among specialists
during the seventeenth century, especially in their personal norebooks. Above, I give a modern
horoscope for the event, cast for 3:00 PM. It will be seen that the related manuscript data were
tolerably accurate: Jupiter alone is out by a little over a degree.
When Dr Bernard died in 1698 his library, with its books in Greek, Latin, Italian, Spanish，
German, Dutch and English, was sold at auction. The published list suggests that Bernard must
have owned the most astonishing private collection of astrological books in seventeenth-century
England.101
SOME CHARTS OF MORIN DE VILI.EFANCHE
Although England proved to be the place where seventeenth-century astrology flourished, one
powerful influence chat would help change horoscopic interpretation came from France. This
was the work of the astrologer, Jean-Baptiste Morin de Villefranche, who wrote with all the
Precision and system of a medieval Schoolman. Possessed of a thorough knowledge of practical
astrology, he was enthused by a powerful urge to Christianise astrology, at about the time when
the official Christian hold over the art was itself weakening. With remarkable intellectual
dexterity, Morin succeeded in this Christianisation without changing much of the pagan
Ptolemaic tradition.
110
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
Morin should be remembered by historians of science as the first person to discover a valid
method of determining longitude. Unfortunately, acknowledgement of his extraordinary
achievements in this area was thwarted by the pernicious influence of Richelieu, in consequence
of which Morin's contribution was not officially recognised by the Royal Council until after the
death of the French first minister, in 1642.102 In his analysis of his own personal horoscope，
Morin offered an interesting planetary explanation as to why Richelieu should have been his
'secret enemy'.103 Later, I shall examine two charts cast by Morin that relate to the life of
Richelieu.
Morin's primary message was that a new astrology was needed, and that this new art should
be a simplification of the systems known to practitioners. This renewal should be marked by a
return to the basic principles set out by Ptolemy, or even （in Morin's ill-founded view） by a
mythological pre-Ptolemaic astrology. Of course, this is by no means the whole truth behind
Morin's massive and scholarly book on astrology, yet the attempt made by him to systematise
and simplify the complex tradition resulted in its acquisition of an accessible and rational-
seeming form of astrology.
Like so many astrologers, Morin had trained initially as a physician: unusually, he gave up
medicine because he did not approve of the excessive blood-letting then popular in conventional
treatments. Morin recorded that he was introduced to astrology by a Scotsman then living in
Paris, William Davison. An astrological prediction which Morin made shortly before 1617
concerning his employer, the Bishop of Boulogne, proved to have been accurate. As a result, his
reputation as an astrologer was widely bruited, and he was consulted by many influential
individuaks, including those in the royal court. In 1638, when the birth of the future Grand
Monarque, Louis XIV, drew near, his father, Louis XIII, specifically commanded Morin to be
cloistered in the royal apartments so as to cast a precise horoscope for the birth of his son.104
Ultimately, all charts （even the rectified versions） of Louis XIV owe their data to Morin. The
example left is from a book dealing with the
：149
48
chart, Published in 1680.105 It differs only by a
few minutes from that given by Morin.106
Those unaccustomed to reading seventeenth-
century charts may have some difficulty
LLudouias14.Rex
disentangling the sigils in the second house：
：29:244
Francia：& Nauar.
NNafus•4:Dccr：
c126.23:3:PM：
Aaebaram：
T6z8:S:N：
：232
scor：
CaD2d fadMaon
：Laf:49：
2g
：022
65
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
111
Reading from the top, the three entries are: Sagittarius 8° on cusp of second; Mars in 25°43'
Sagittarius; Caput in ° Capricorn. One observes that the time of birth （23.03 PM） is given for
the time system then used in France, where the day began at twelve noon. The abbreviation
S:N: after the date stands for Seigneur Notre, which is the equivalent of the year of Our Lord'.
Few astrologers would have foreseen from this chart that, on the death of his father, and
before the child was five years old, he would have become king.107 Morin gained favour in the
royal court and it is known that he later cast horoscopes to determine the most satisfactory times
for various royal events and embassies, though he was never appointed royal astrologer.
Morin's major work was so monumental in scope that it is impossible to deal with adequately
in a restricted space. However, some of his proposals were ahead of his time, and have found
their way into many forms of modern astrology. Among these we might include his approach to
the significance of the ascendant. Morin emphasised, above all other factors, the degree on the
ascendant. He held this degree to be more important than even the Lord of the ascendant, or
than any planet in the ascending sign. In the context of seventeenth-century astrology this was a
revolutionary idea, yet the paramount importance of the degree is taken for granted in modern
times.108
Morin's book was intensely Christian. The concept of the Trinity of the Godhead, so
important to seventeenth-century Catholics, permeated his book, in which he adopted the
Paracelsian triad of occult worlds - the Elemental, the Ethereal and the Celestial - as a pertinent
analogy for the Trinity. In terms of astrology, these corresponded approximately to the earthly，
the planetary and che zodiacal （the latter merged with the realm of fixed stars）. 109 This attempt
to unify the Christian Trinity with the occult ternaries led Morin to adjust the astrological
traditional itself, by subdividing the twelve houses into four sets of ternaries. He concluded
that, just as the twelve signs of the zodiac were regulated by
four great triangles （the Elemental triangles that mark
out the quadruplicities）， so the houses should be
10
11
similarly arranged. The four domiciliary tri-
gons were arranged by him in the schema
alongside.
12
One of the triangles from the above
four he called the 'trigon of Passions'.
This trigon incorporated the twelfth
1
house, with its emphasis on the suffer-
7
ings that assail the native during and
towards the end of life - hence, illnesses
and enemies. The eighth house was linked
2
with the final passion or suffering, which is
death itself. According to Morin, the fourth
house corresponded to the parents. This last
4
amendment to the tradition is fundamental. In the
112
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
Ptolemaic astrology inherited by the West, the fourth house was the exclusive domain of the
mother, while the tenth house was that of the father. It is in regard to the religion -
engendered change for this house that Morin reveals the ultimate background to his system of
domiciliary trigons. The house is linked with the material suffering of birth itself - that is
with incarnation and with the moral suffering imposed on those born by Original Sin. Here，
che parents are revealed as being linked with che primal parents, the archetypal Adam and Eve.
These associations, with a somewhat idealised pristine parenthood, and with the notion of
birth as suffering, reveal the domiciliary trigons as a result of an attempt to present the houses
from a point of view of the Trinity of the Godhead.
The structure of houses proposed by Morin is intensely Christianised: it is no accident that
the ninth house, formerly linked with philosophy, exploration, education and travel, has
become, in the hands of Morin, a representative of Life in God'， the vita dei of the
contemplatives.
It is in his study of the houses that Morin is most irritating. He suggested that the
knowledge of the twelve houses （and presumably that of the twelve signs） was revealed
to Adam, who passed it on to posterity by way of the Cabala. This astonishing view of the
history of astrology seems to hinge on his recognition that the sephiroth of the Cabalistic
Tree were themselves equivalents of, or reflections of, the twelve signs, and of the twelve
houses. Perhaps Morin had been persuaded into this view by the writings of the English
Rosicrucian, Robert Fludd, who had published elaborate diagrams relating the Tree to the
twelve signs.110
Some modern historians have had difficulties explaining why, and on what astrological
grounds, Morin sought to change the interpretation of houses. As we have seen, in his
proposed system he held that the fourth house, rather than pointing merely to the mother，
should point to both parents. However, he took this reform further and proposed that the fourth
should govern che animate, or living, possessions of the native'， such as servants and domestic
animals. The reason behind this adjustment to the traditional system has not been recognised
with sufficient clarity by historians of astrology. The fact is that Morin was partly influenced
by the tradition of horary astrology, in which the fourth house was already established as 'the
House of the Parents'. As John Evans, who taught William Lilly astrology, had written within
a horary context：
By the fourth which is called the House of Parents, wee judge of Fathers, Houses, Lands, and
•ancient heritages， （but not always of those that are dead） and of Gardens, Woods, Pastures， &
all things immovable, as of Castles, and other like things, and what may happen after
death.111
For reasons which he never made clear, Morin was merging the horary and the genethliacal
traditions. However, the fundamental reason behind this change is to be found in Morin's own
search to rationalise and systematise astrology within a Christian framework.112
一
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
113
It has become a convention among modern historians of science to point to Morin as the last
of the great French astrologers. The argument has been put forward that he could not find a
Publisher for his magnum opus, Astrologia Gallica, because che interest in astrology was on the
wane, or because the Latin in which it was written was no longer the language of astrology or
scholarship. It is certainly true that the royal decree prohibiting the practice of astrology and
promulgated with the connivance of the French statesman, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, seems to
have driven Morin into isolation. At all events, from about 1626 Morin began work on his
magnum opus: an undertaking that was delayed by civil war in France, and which did not
come to fruition until after his death. However, it is unlikely that any of these reasons for che
delay in publication are sound. It is more likely that Morin could not find a publisher for his
book simply because it was so critical, and because so many of his ideas flew in the face of the
traditional art, as it was practised in his day. As the historian, Lynn Thorndike, has observed，
Morin found so many faults with the astrology of everyone else that it is doubtful whether he
himself would have found many followers. 13
There was one division of astrology where Morin's great learning did provide a new impetus.
His commentary on the methods of revolution charts was sufficiently concise to influence the
development of chis predictive technique in years to come. Morin pointed out that solar
revolution charts could not have been accurate in the past simply because the tables formerly
available （especially the Alfonsine tables） were not sufficiently reliable as a basis for such
calculations: they could be as much as 20 or 30 minutes out. However, he argued that by now
ephemerides had become sufficiently accurate for revolutions to be regarded as valid, and the
whole art could be examined in a fresh light.114
One question raised by Morin - perhaps for the first time by a well-informed astrologer -
concerned for which place the revolutionary chart should be cast. It was normal for such
solar charts to be cast for the place of birth, but Morin proposed that for the time of a fururised
chart to be accurate, then the place in which that event had occurred should be taken
into account. For a revolution to be valid in time it had to be equally valid in space.lls
This explains why the revolution charts which Morin cast always indicated a place or latitude
that the native was known to occupy at the time of the specific revolution. For example, the
birth chart overleaf （lefr） was drawn up by Morin for his enemy, Cardinal Richelieu. Alongside
is the solar revolution for Richelieu's fifty-seventh year （1641） cast for the more northerly
laticude of 50 degrees, which, Morin tells us, is for the locality of Ambianus （Amiens）， in
Picardy.116
When contemplating the revolution of 1641, Morin recognises just how terrible was the
opposition of Saturn, from the tenth house, to the satellitium of Mercury, Sun and Mars, in the
fourth; it was in the following year that Richelieu died. One observes that the locality for this
revolution chart of 1641 should have been the city of Lyon （Morin calls it by its Roman name，
Lugdunm）， at latitude 45 degrees. Morin tells us that, at the time the revolution became valid，
Richelieu was in this city oversecing the decapitation of two of the Cinq-Mars conspirators，
who had planned to kill the King.1I7
114
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
Nativitas Joan.ArmandiDu Plelfis
Cardinalis Richelii.
Revolutio.
230.$8.
332.24
829:39
6$619
。
I$85
164I
Septcmbris
&
Septembris
D. H. M.
D. H. M.
8. 21.34. T.A.
8. 11.0. T.A.
Parifis.
Ambiani
Ex Tabul. Rudolp.
Latit.so.
罕
Q全台％
J.
A FOUNDATION CHART BY FLAMSTEED
Among the several famous surviving clection charts relating to the foundations of buildings in
che seventeenth century is one cast by Flamsteed, the first Astronomer Royal and the founder of
Greenwich Observatory. The original chart, now preserved in Cambridge University Library，
has been copied many times and has been
published in a number of astrological works.118
Fittingly, the chart was erected by Flamsteed
to determine a suitable time for the foundation
mlose
of the Observatory. The most satisfactory elec-
八273
tion for this great event was for 10:03:14 PM
on 10 August 1675. It was a curiously late time
2
¥10-0
for such an enterprise. However, as we shall see，
2®
心
there was a very good reason why Flamsteed
8
was prepared to wait for 17 degrees of Sagittar-
心
6
ius to be on the ascendant. In almost every
心
四17:1
Rean Aeraalsamitji
other respect, the moment was wisely chosen.
The Lord of the Horoscope, which Flamsteed
5
would probably have called the 'Almuten'， was
127-3
XE12:22
9:42
in its own sign, within 8 degrees of the
b12-24
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
115
ascendant. Perhaps most interesting is the fact that Flamsteed elected a day in which the Sun
was within the astrologer's arc （see pages 182-3）.
Generally speaking, the chart is fairly accurate: the major deviant is Saturn, which was
actually in 11.57 Taurus. As the astrologer Pearce has pointed out, the fortunate star Spica was
on the Midheaven （though Flamsteed did not mark the star on the chart）.119 As a matter of fact，
in 1675, Spica was in 19.18 Libra, and the correspondence between this degree and the
Midheaven suggests that Flamsteed must have chosen the curious time for the laying of the
foundation stone purely in order to ensure that this star was placed on the MC.120
At the bottom of the inner quadrate are the three Latin words Risum teneatis amici （you should
restrain your laughter, friend）， which Pearce has ascribed to some learned astronomer hostile to
astrology . However, if the writer were an astronomef, then he must have been one familiar with
anti-astrological writings. The three words are part of a phrase quoted by the learned and
unfortunate Elizabethan, Henry Howard, Earl of Northampton, in a book written against
prophecy and judicial astrology. The full phrase （derived from lines by the Roman poet, Horace）
was Spectatum admissi risum teneatis amici, which means something like 'If you have not seen it for
yourself, friend, then you should restrain your laughter about it'.12l As a suitable election for a
foundation, it was thwarted by a factor well beyond even Flamsteed's knowledge. At che time he
Proposed the clection, Cauda （which Flamsteed placed in 08.52 Cancer） was in exactly the same
degree as the yet undiscovered Pluto！
Cauda on 10 August 1675：
08.36 Cancer
Pluto on 10 August 1675：
08.18 Cancer
Flamsteed had developed an interest in astrology during his youth and is one of the many
individuals of the period who owed their enthusiasm for the art to William Lilly. It is said that
Flamsteed first attracted Lilly's attention when the young man sent him astronomical data.
Recognising the youth's potential, Lilly arranged for him to meet the influential astrologers
Jonas Moore and George Wharton.122
Flamsteed seems to have had considerable experience with foundations and foundation charts.
For example, he was among those who attended the laying of the foundation stone of Sir
Christopher Wren's magnificent Greenwich Hospital. The diarist, John Evelyn, who was
present at the event and who appears actually to have helped Wren lay the first stone，
mentioned that Flamsteed observed the punctual time with his instruments.123 The chart for
this event demonstrates just how intent astrologers could be on providing a relevant election for
a building. The rulership of Virgo over hospitals and nursing is catered for astrologically, by
allowing Jupiter and Mars to be in this sign. Similarly, the concern with surgery was reflected in
the presence of both Caput and the Moon in the sign Scorpio, which rules invasive surgery.
There was a certain irony in the fact that during the laying ceremony, one of the workmen
grazed his fingers against the gravel support and some drops of blood fell on the stone.
Astrologically, this ominous event might be explained by the fact that Mars was directly
116
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
overhead, on the Midheaven and - what was chen unknown to any astrologer of the period -
was in direct opposition to Neptune, the ruler of liquids：
Mars on 30 June 1696：
29.00 Virgo
Neptune on 30 June 1696：
28.47 Pisces
THE HOROSCOPE OF ELIAS ASHMOLE
We can learn a great deal about the nature of seventeenth-century astrology from the horoscope
Which Elias Ashmole cast for his own birth. This chart, reproduced in figure 4, is a modern
graphic translation' of the original, now in the the Bodleian Library, Oxford. A translation of
this kind permits one to study the fixed stars with their modern names, rather than with the
medieval names used by Ashmole. Furthermore, a translation offers one an opportunity to
adjust the precessional positions of these stars within the zodiac （relative to 1617）： this is
necessary, as the precessional positions given in the original manuscripts were not always
accurate. The zodiacal positions of planets and cusps are derived from a modern computerized
version of the birth-time. As an aid to the reader, the same horoscope is given, in a small
format, below.
ormahaut28.30•
CAPUT 25.30
rograde
Capricor
• Caput Algo! 20.49
SATURN 17.14
Aries 3.40
Aquarius
MOON 23.23
Capricomn 16.06
•Woge 9.58•
200
May 22. 1617
Gemini
• Rioel 11.39
SUN 11.30.58
Capricom
Lord of the day：
Birthelace
lactude 53.
MERCURY 15.23 Belacrix
•Hrcus 16.201
FORTUNA
22.07
Hoon apalying fro
Sun on 25 May $：25.49
Venus to tine with Jupiter.
sextie of
Cancer 1.11
Antares 4.25
Sagittarius 4.00
•souh Scoh94
Libra
Arcturus 18.53
North Scale 14.01
Libra
Spica 18.29
Cancer 16.06
• Procyon
VENUS23.44
MARS7.8Vigo
Not only was the manuscript chart drawn up with great care, but it also includes an
astrological overkill of fifteen fixed stars, each marked with the sidereal position and each
referenced into the chart. By modern standards, these stellar insertions allow too wide an orb，
yet they do appear to be valid in the context of seventeenth-century astrology. At the bottom of
the chart are useful lists of planetary latitudes and of antiscia and contra-antiscia.124 The degrees
on the cusps indicate that the Modus Rationalis was used for the houses.
The top line of the inner data suggests that Ashmole was born on 22 May 1617 at 15:25:49 PM
in Lichfield. This contradicts the date given by the greatest student of Ashmole, Josten, who
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
117
gave the date as 23 May 1617.125 However, the first line in the chart relates to a time system that
is no longer used in the West, but which was often used in seventeenth-century charts. As we
shall see, the data in the horoscope relate to a birth on 23 May 1617.
Within the inner data section of the chart, there are certain terms that permit an insight into
the nature of seventeenth-century astrology. It may seem trifling for us to examine terms which are
now obsolete, yet the fact is that these were taken very seriously by che astrologers of the period
and are an integral part of its horoscopy. Indeed, it is only by reflecting on the meaning of such
terms that we will be able to understand just how different was their astrology from that of today.
I shall deal with che dates and time systems shortly. First, I would like to glance at two terms
cowards the bottom of the data. In the original, these abbreviations were Dns. diei. （Venus）， and
Hor: astr. （Sun）. In my version of che chart, the terms are translated as Lord of the day: Venus'，
and 'Astrological hour: Sun'. These terms relate to planetary rulerships that are specific to the day
of birth.
The Lord of the Day'. This is a statement of the ruling planet, the name of which is enshrined
within the specific day of the week. Friday （the day on which the birth took place） is the day
ruled by Venus. It is this planet which is supposed to suffuse the entire horoscope - it points to
the presiding deity （for Venus was a planetary goddess） ruling the horoscope. It is true, as both
Ashmole and Lilly recognised, that the dominant planet within the chart itself was Mercury, but
it is Venus that lends her softness and feminine intelligence to Mercury, and indeed to all the
other planets in the figure.
The 'Astrological Hour' has nothing to do with the ascendant, or Horoscopos; rather, it is an
important hour that is determined by specific rules, which take the Lord of the Day as a starting
point. The rules for determining this Lord point to a long-archaic system which measured the
commencement of the day as at sunrise. Its antiquity is especially emphasised in the data for this
chart which, as we shall see, insist on measuring time from two different fiducials - from noon
time, and from midnight.126
One of the clearest expositions of the astrological hour is that given by William Lilly, whose
instructions we shall now examine. The earth is divided horizontally by darkness and light: chat
part of the skies which is in daylight （regardless of the time of year） is called an Artificial Day'，
and is divided into twelve equal "hours'， which are rarely of an hour's duration, and which are
called 'Planetary or unequal Astrological hours'.127 Similarly, that part of the earth in darkness is
divided into twelve equal ‘astrological hours’.128
Each of the hours is allocated to one of the seven planets. The first hour is said to be ruled by
the Lord of the Day - in this particular case by Venus, the ruler of Friday. The daylight planets
are then allocated rulers in the specific order of：
Venus Saturn
Sun Moon
Mars
Mercury
Jupiter
This rulership series is directly derived from the sequence of days in the week. When the seventh
planet has been reached, the sequence begins again. With Venus as marker of the first hour, Mars
118
THE HISTORY OF THE HOROSCOPE
appears on the last 'hour' of the day. The sequence continues below the western horizon （in this
case with Mercury）， and begins the rulership sequence of the twelve hours of the night.
Following this sequence, one arrives at the last hour of the night, which is shortly to become
the first hour of the day. This hour is ruled by the Sun.
Despite the benign reputation of the Sun in astrological circles, the hour of the Sun was not
highly regarded by medieval astrologers: it is generally an unfortunate hour， 'unless ［for］
making Applications to great Persons'.129 Traditionally, it is not a good hour in which to
invest money, or to attend on the female sex. Nor is it a good hour in which to begin a
building. The entire programme of interpretation of the planetary hours is slanted towards
horary astrology, and should never have been introduced into natal horoscopy. This much was
admitted by the astrologer, Henry Coley, when he pointed out that the planetary hours are of
great antiquity in astrology, but that they are not to be regarded as having the same
interpretative strength as a well-constructed election chart which is in sympathy with the
nativity of the querent.130 Indeed, Coley was one of the astrologers of the period who was keen
to see the whole apparatus of the hours dispensed with, as an invalid part of astrology.131
The true birth day in the Ashmole chart, according to the modern frame of reference, is
recorded in the third line from the bottom. This marks the arc of time （3:25:49） traversed by
the Sun on 23 May, presuming time to have begun at midnight. The time in the second line is
based on the measurement of a day commencing local time midday, measured not by clock
time, but by the transit of the Sun over the Midheaven. Within this frame of reference, the day
of 22 May will not be completed until the end of che revolution on the following midday，
when 23 May will begin.
One interesting thing about the Ashmole manuscript chart is that it makes use of three
seemingly different time systems. The first two involved the date 22 May 1617, simply
because the fiducial of time is midday. The first of these times is given as 15:25:49，
which relates to the passage of time elapsing after the transit of the Sun over the Midheaven：
this time measurement must not be confused with the twenty-four hour clock. Later, in
the penultimate line, the equivalent time for the date of birth, 23 May, is recorded: in this，
the position of the Sun on 23 May is recorded as 3:25:49. This is a time arc equivalent
of the movement of the Sun after its transit of the local Imum Coeli, rather than the
Midheaven.132 Under this system of time measurement, the birth was recorded for the
following day.
The number of fixed stars included in the manuscript horoscope is something of a puzzle.
The placing of Antares, and even of the South and North Scales, on the cusp of the seventh，
may be explained in terms of their proximity to the cusps themselves - even though a much
wider orb is in play than is usually regarded as acceptable in the seventeenth century. For
example, the North Scale is 10 degrees from che cusp and, in terms of the astrology of che
time, would be regarded as effective. On the other hand, there is no apparent explanation for
the inclusion of the two powerful stars, Spica and Arcturus, in the middle of the sixth house.
The one possibility is that Ashmole was prepared to accept the stellar influences working
THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
119
through the antiscia. However, the star Wega, in 9.58, Capricorn, lies neither on an antiscion
nor on a contra-antiscion.
Ashmole has marked into the chart the names of fourteen fixed stars. One observes that ten of
these are from the medieval tradition, known to scholars as 'the fifteen stars' - a list chat
ascribed special sigils, jewels, and other associations to that number of special stars.133 It is
tempting to imagine that Ashmole was including in his chart only stars from this medieval
tradition. However, this proves not to have been the case. There are exceptions in the chart
which indicate that Ashmole was familiar with che methods used by astrologers, in respect of
stellar readings: for example, the beneficial star Rigel is recorded, even though it was not among
the fifteen, precisely because it was in the same degree as Ashmole's Sun, and therefore strongly
operative within che chart.
Seventeenth-century astrology had taken much of its enthusiastic impetus from attempts to
reform certain aspects of the Ptolemaic tradition. Among the most energetic and thoughtful of
che English reformers had been John Gadbury, who, over a period of ten years, had collected
some ten thousand birth charts in order to study specific effects, yet towards the end of his life
even Gadbury despaired of his efforts at reform. In 1703, he admitted in a letter that, while he
could not altogether "Renounce, or bid Good Night to Astrology'， he no longer felt in a position
to defend many of its doctrines which he had previously accepted and used.134 It was a sad letter，
no doubt written under the influence of Saturn, during the penultimate year of a long life, the
brink of the Grave being become the Desk we wtite on'. However, the truth is that the efforts
towards reform did leave theit mark on astrology, even if these were not felt until the following
centuries.