www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module 11
Interpretation continued – Sample Charts!
© www.nodoor.com
“I’m trying to understand what my chart
says about relationships.  It seems
I spend a lot of time analyzing
potential girlfriends.  My friends
tell me I’m too picky, but then I tend
to fall for someone that’s totally
different than what I thought I
wanted.  I get really involved but then
we break-up, because – guess what –
we’re not  really compatible, except
physically.  Sometimes I break-up with
them, other times they break-up
with me.  After breaking-up I try
to figure out what went
wrong and become really picky
and critical all over again.  Why is
this, and what can I do about it?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
Natal Chart
What indicates relationship issues in a natal chart?
Here are the priorities for analyzing relationships issues in a natal chart:
1. The Lunar Nodes by sign, house and aspect.
2. The Moon and Venus in a male chart, including sign, house and
aspects.
3. The Sun and Mars in a female chart, including sign, house and
aspects.
4. Venus in a female chart provides additional relationship clues.
5. The sign on the DSC, and aspects to the DSC.
6. Planets in the 7th House.
7. The sign on the 8th House cusp.
8. Planets in the 8th House.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
The North Node in Pisces in the 8th house and the South Node in Virgo
in the 2nd house.
“This guy is learning to go with the flow in terms of intimacy and
passion, but he needs to develop his intuitive side more to be able to
trust others.  Plus he needs to become more tolerant and accepting of
others, more forgiving and empathetic.  We can see that he can be
critical and analytical.  Not only does he have the South Node in Virgo,
but the Moon and Venus too!  So he is more secure when things add up,
or make sense.    He depends upon his logic to reassure him, but this
only provides temporary security and leaves him longing for something
else!  That something else is represented by this North node in Pisces in
the 8th House, which means opening-up to the possibilities of what
intimacy can really offer.  However, when he’s insecure he retreats
from the temporary blissful feelings of an intimate experience.  Thus he
fluctuates between a sense of euphoria when he really connects with
someone and then retreats into a more rational explanation of his
experience.”
Both his Moon and Venus are in Virgo, with the Moon conjunct the 2nd
House cusp – and therefore more 2nd House in meaning.  Both the
Moon and Venus are also square Jupiter, and trine Neptune.  The
Moon is also sextile Pluto, while Venus is quincunx Mars, and Venus
makes a wide out-of-sign trine with Uranus and Saturn.
“The fact that he is picky and analytical about
relationships should come as no surprise.  He
tends to want and need very specific traits and
characteristics in a woman.  He wants her to be
practical, and logical, down to earth and
pragmatic.  However, this square with Jupiter
suggests that his expectations are “inflated.”
The square between the Moon and Jupiter is
typical of “too much mother,” meaning his Mom
probably tried to do too much for him; perhaps she tried to be too
perfect and was overly supportive or excessive in some way.  So, he
may have been spoiled a bit by his Mom, but also influenced by her
critical ways.  She may have been a perfectionist herself, and often
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
expressed her critical analysis of others – especially of girls.  He
probably got a double message from Mom, i.e. “Let me take care of
that for you, nothing is too good for my son.”  Followed by, “You need
to be more focused and organized.  The world isn’t going to reward you
for being sloppy.”  Undoubtedly his Mom set high standards in what
she felt was acceptable or unacceptable.”
The sign on the DSC is Aquarius.  “Aquarius is a very different indicator
than Virgo.  He attracts, and is attracted to, a
partner that is unique and original – more of an
individualist.  She is smart and observant, able
to be objective with him like a best friend.  Yet
she may be a non-conformist in some ways, and
her rebellious traits would have some appeal to
him.  However, Pluto is square the DSC; and this
indicates some major “trust issues.”  More than
likely he has experienced some kind of loss or betrayal growing-up.
You would want to explore this with him in a consultation.   The DSC
square Pluto is also about confrontation, and dealing with a more
compelling desire nature.  In part, this also suggests that he has some
type of compulsion regarding a girlfriend/partner that stirs his passions
even though she is “very different” from the “perfect picture” his Mom
painted for him growing-up.  Yet, there is probably more to it than this,
and your dialogue with him could really bring out the truth.  Also, the
Sun is trine the DSC; this aspect can be a bit lazy, i.e. he takes the
“recognition” he gets in a relationship for granted.  In other words, his
ego is easily boosted by his partners.   However, remember, having
both Pluto and the Sun aspecting his DSC also describes some of the
traits or characteristics of the type of partner he attracts.  With Pluto,
she will have an undercurrent of intensity, and be able to handle
confrontation.  With the Sun, she will likely have a more pronounced
ego than you would expect from Aquarius on the DSC, so there’s
something dark about her in terms of Pluto, but something bright
about her in terms of the Sun.  However, these are only descriptive
factors, the real issue has to do with her individuality and intensity.”
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
The sign on the 8th House cusp is Pisces and the North Node in Pisces is
in the 8th House, as is Mars in Aries.
“Underneath everything else, this guy
really seeks a more profound, even
spiritual intimacy.  He likes to feel
“inspired” by the intimacy that
develops.  Intimacy can be like a
mystical experience for him, perhaps
even a “tantric” like experience.  For
example, if his partner played a musical
instrument, he would like to lay beside
her and listen.  Such an experience
could be enchanting for him.  Or if his
girlfriend reads him poetry that evokes
something deeper, he is drawn to this
kind of experience.  However, he can
become overwhelmed by this and fall back into his need for a practical
frame of reference (South Node in Virgo in the 2nd House).  However,
notice that the North Node is in the 8th House, and therefore this
resonates with Pluto square his ASC and DSC, because it repeats this 8th
House theme.  The big issue for him is trusting others.  As an astrologer,
your role is to help him discover “why?”  His Mars in Aries in the 8th
House adds more zest and motivation to this quest for intimacy.
However, notice that Mars is retrograde; thus he internalizes this
normally assertive energy.  So he is not as aggressive as would usually
be the case.  Yet this is still Mars in Aries, so he can jump into
relationships before he realizes how fast he’s moving!  The quincunx
between his Venus in Virgo and Mars in Aries shows continual
adjustments between his wanting everything to be perfect versus his
own impatience and desire for more immediate gratification.  ”
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
Drew Barrymore has been married 3 times:
 The first was to a bartender she only knew for six weeks.
 The second was to comic Tom Green, a man so strange he might be related
to ET.
 Yet in June of 2012, Drew married art consultant and actor Will Kopelman,
and the two have parented two children.