www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Complement II: Questions to ask yourself?
© www.nodoor.com

The signs, planets, and houses tell us the questions to ask of ourselves,
or of others.  Knowing the questions to ask is the first step towards
discovering the truth about ourselves and our experience of life.
In the list of questions that will follow, the signs, planets and houses are
grouped according to the zodiacal alphabet.  Some of these associations
are “interchangeable” in terms of our human experience, but you will also
notice some differences in signs, planets and houses too.  However, their
resonance is stronger than their differences.
A Scorpio man may say, “I like to play Mahjong
because I can discover so much about the other
person.”  Yet this could also be true of the Sun in
the 8th house or the Sun in a close aspect with
Pluto.
[We haven‟t taught the aspects yet, but you will learn them in this course.]
In such a case, the question is:
“Why does the Scorpio man need to discover so much about the other person?”
Answer; “This is how he decides whether or not he can trust them, or in what ways
he might be able to trust them.”
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
Question:  “Are all Scorpios concerned with trust?”
Answer: “Yes, to varying degrees, depending on their experience of life – especially
in terms of early life experiences.”
SAMPLE QUESTIONS
With each question, use your answer to explore
further.  For example: If “yes,” think of some
instances of this and then move on to the next
question; if “no” then “why not?” Examine your
history in light of your own astrological make-up
to see how this enhances your awareness.
ARIES (Mars) 1st House:
Do I assert myself effectively?
Do I readily recognize my own self-interest?
Am I direct with others?
Do I readily take action for myself?
Am I sometimes too aggressive?
Am I frequently impatient?
Do I express my anger easily and then get over it?
Do I usually hide my anger?
Once I become angry, do I tend to stay angry for a while?
Am I more at ease with female friends or males friends?
Did my father, or other male influences, show me how to do things when
I was growing-up?
Did my father or other male influences encourage me to be assertive?
Am I confident physically?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
Do I believe I could defend myself physically?
Could I runaway fast and escape harm?
Am I afraid of dogs?
Have dogs ever attacked me?
TAURUS (Venus) 2nd House
Is it easy for me to feel what has value?
Do I have a strong sense of what‟s worth it and what isn‟t, especially in
terms of material things?
Do I crave physical comfort?
Is it easy for me to enjoy comfort?
Do I relax easily?
Am I sensual?
Do I like to touch things that are smooth and soft?
Do I expect to be rewarded amply for my efforts?
Is material comfort important to me?
Do I really enjoy the good things that life has to
offer?
Do I feel I am a worthwhile individual?
Is smell and taste important to me?
Do I crave abundance?
Do I crave candy and sweet things?
Do I spend money easily?
Did my mother show me how to do things when I was growing-up?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
Did any female take time to show me how to do things when I was
growing-up?
Do I feel confident in buying clothing and choosing fashion?
As a „woman‟ do I feel comfortable with make-up and beauty products?
Do I make a point to save money?
Do I sometimes splurge and spend more than I should?
Do I check my bank account balance nearly every day?
Gemini (Mercury) 3rd house
Do I talk with others easily?
Do I hear others easily?
Am I curious about many things?
Do I believe that I communicate well?
Do I enjoy feedback from others?
Do I believe others are interested in what I have to say?
Am I a quick learner?
Was I a good student in elementary school?
Do I enjoy teaching or giving instruction?
Am I capable of learning more than one language?
Do I have good relations with my siblings?
Do I have good relations with my cousins?
Do I have good relations with my neighbors?
Do I follow directions easily?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
Do I remember things easily?
Do I easily find short-cuts to get across town?
Am I quick to reply to other people‟s questions?
Am I expedient in my email correspondence?
Do I enjoy reading?
Do I tend to keep up with the current-events and news?
Do I check weather reports?
Do I often debate with others, or get into arguments?
Do I sometimes say rude things?
CANCER (Moon) 4th house
Do I listen to my feelings?
Do I trust my emotions?
Do I usually have good instincts about things?
Am I a nurturing person?
Do I like to spend time in my home?
Is family important to me?
Do I like to cook?
Is privacy very important to me?
Does the need for emotional security strongly
motivate me?
Did I have a good relationship with my mother
growing up?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
Was my childhood family life secure and nurturing?
Do I love my mother?
Do I love my parents?
Do I enjoy spending time with my parents?
Do I feel secure in my current home?
Is it easy for me to express my emotions?
Do I generally feel secure?
Do I allow others to nurture me?
Do I like kids?  Do I have or want children?
Do I need others to nurture me?
Am I sentimental?
Do I tend to dwell upon the past?
Do I like to collect memorabilia?
Leo (Sun) 5th house
Am I a confident individual?
Do I like to be in charge of things?
Do I like to be the center of attention?
Do I have a lot of pride?
Is my ego easily offended?
Do I enjoy celebrating life!
Do I like being in charge of special projects?
Am I good at planning a party?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 7
Do I have expensive taste in clothes and material things?
Do others accuse me of being dramatic?
Am I sometimes a show-off?
Do I enjoy playing games?
Did I have a good relationship with my father growing-up?
Did my father spend time with me?
Do I believe my father loves me? (Or loved me?)
Do I love my father?
Was I important to my father?
Do I sometimes feel special?
Do I prefer male friends or female friends?  (Or either?)
In groups do I tend to play a leadership role?
Do I try to set a positive example for others?
I tend to shine the most in _________________________.
(Fill in the blank.)
VIRGO (Mercury) 6th house
Am I good at organizing things?
Do I have good analytical skills?
Am I a logical person? Do I depend upon logic?
Am I a very practical person?
Do I make lists?
Am I good at prioritizing things?
Am I a good editor?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 8
Would I make a good content editor for a website?
Does health and nutrition interest me more than most people?
Would I make a good film editor if I have such an opportunity?
Am I neat?
Am I very conscious of being clean?
Do I tend to be obsessive about cleanliness?
Am I a critical person?
Do I criticize others?
Would I make a good film-critic?
Am I clever or adept with computers?
Can I fix broken things?
Am I a picky person?
Do I take pride in a job well done?
Am I adept at selecting items that fit the requirements?
Am I a perfectionist?
Is organizing my work schedule very important to me?
LIBRA (Venus) 7th house
Am I a cooperative person?
Is the well-being of others of concern to me?
Do I tend to accommodate others?
Is keeping the peace important to me?
Am I good at building relationships of all kinds?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 9
Am I a good negotiator?
Am I willing to compromise in order to reach a fair agreement?
Am I indecisive?
Do I expend a lot of energy trying to keep everyone else happy?
Am I good at forging agreements with others?
Is marriage/partnership important to me?
Is the well-being of my partner a high priority in my life?
Do I tend to be significantly influenced by others?
Has my current partner, or former partners, significantly influenced me?
Am I a “people person?”  Meaning, do I like people?  Am I social?
Does psychology interest me?
Did my mother or other females teach me how to get along with people
or show me how to interact with others, or be more aware of others?
Did a have good friends growing up?  Do I have a good social life now?
Did my mother or other females teach me about clothing?  Cosmetics?
Hair styles?
Was I popular in school?  Elementary? High-school? College?
SCORPIO (Pluto) 8th house
Do I have 6th sense when it comes to danger?
Do I trust others easily?
Do I tend to obsess about rejection, betrayal or
abandonment?
Am I frequently suspicious of others?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 10
Do I obsess about potential crisis, yet are adept at helping others in a
crisis?
Do I like to be in control?
Do I attract confrontation? Am I adept at dealing with confrontation?
Do I consider myself a survivor, or capable of surviving extreme
situations?
Do others say I am an intense person?
Does obsessing tend to keep me from sleeping?
Do I ask more questions than I answer?
Am I a natural detective or researcher?
Am I good at interrogating people?
Am I a passionate person?
Do I sometimes feel envy intensely?
Can I become quite jealous?
Have I every spied on someone? Or stalked them?
Am I reliable in a crisis, especially for friends and loved ones?
Am I quite capable of revenge?
Do I hate waste, and tend to hold on to things?
Is it difficult for me to let-go of a relationship?
Sagittarius (Jupiter) 9th house
Am I freedom loving?
Do I fear being trapped?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 11
Do I like to keep my options open?
Am I outgoing?
Am I adventurous?
Do I generally tend to be optimistic?
Do I tend to be enthusiastic about my beliefs?
Is my philosophy of life important to me?
Do I love learning?
Am I a natural teacher?
Do I enjoy explaining things to people?
Do I love travel?
Have I traveled internationally?
Am I a natural sales person?
Am I sometimes opinionated?
Do I tend to exaggerate?
Am I generally honest?
Do I tell funny and sometimes outrageous
stories?
Do I tend to laugh more than others?
Do I tell jokes and like to make others laugh?
Do I tend to overextend myself?
Do I underestimate the amount of time something will take?
Do I sometimes promise more than can be realistically done?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 12
Capricorn (Saturn) 10th house
Is success very important to me?
Do I fear failure more than most?
Do I love to win?
Do I hate to lose?
Am I quietly competitive?
Am I good at managing tasks?
Am I good at managing others?
Is commitment important to me?
Do I have a strong sense of responsibility and duty?
Do I like to stick with my plan? Is having a time table important to me?
Do I experience inner fulfillment upon the completion of a goal?
Is status more important to me than most?
Am I willing to make sacrifices to achieve my goals?
Am I able to plan well and achieve my agenda?
Will I persevere despite frustrating delays?
Do I enjoy work more than most?
Am I more capable of self-discipline than most?
Do I have to fight my own harsh judgments regarding failure?
Do I struggle with pessimism and depression sometimes?
Is recognition important to me?
Does the prospect of fame and worldly success motivate me?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 13
Could I handle the pressure of being a high-profile, or well-known
individual?
Aquarius (Uranus) 11th house
Am I often detached?
Do I pride myself on my intellectual perspective?
Do I have a need to contribute?
Am I sometimes eccentric?
Am I a non-conformist?
Do I like to participate in groups yet retain autonomy?
Do I naturally have a more original way of looking at things?
Would I enjoy making a humanitarian or community contribution?
Am I very individualistic?
Am I somewhat contrary and rebellious?
Do I sometimes find it difficult to fit in?
Can I be both a part of a team and apart from the team at the same
time?
Do I tend to have strong fixed ideas once I‟m sure about something?
Do ideas that liberate people from the past really interest me?
Am I independent?
Do both original ideas and ancient ideas fascinate me?
Am I a keen observer of human behavior?
Am I a kind of amateur sociologist, interested in social trends and
cultural changes?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 14
Am I impulsive?
Am I a risk-taker?
Do I sometimes think of myself as no-better than anyone else, but still
very different than most?
Pisces (Neptune) 12th house
Do I seem to be more sensitive than others?
Do I feel I recognize more complexities than most?
Do I have a vivid imagination?
Am I a dreamer?
Am I impacted by the suffering of others?
Do I often feel compassion for people in the world?
Is music important to me?
Am I creative in expressing my feelings and imagination?
Do I seem to require more time alone than most?
Am I interested in spiritual things?
Do I have escapist tendencies?
Do others accuse me of being evasive?
Do I have addictive tendencies?
Do I occasionally become temporarily overwhelmed by life and need to
hide from the world?
Do I have allergies?
Do I feel a need to help make the world a better place?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 15
Am I impressionable?
Do films tend to have a significant effect upon me?
Am I adaptive?  Do I tend to “go with the flow?”
Do others say I tend to complicate things?
Do I feel comfortable by myself?
Do I prefer to work behind the scenes?