www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Complement I : Key Words and Phrases
©www.nodoor.com
KEY WORDS and PHRASES for the SIGNS:
ARIES: self-directed, self-motivated, self-starter, self-initiative, direct,
fresh, blunt, assertive, aggressive, in the moment, impatient, action oriented, the urge
for immediate results, into now, now is all there is, pioneering, head-strong, rash, rude,
unaware of others, me-first, selfish.
Anatomical correlation: the head area, the face and the skull. (Scars on the face, marks,
marred – from Mars, the associate planet.)
TAURUS: sturdy, laid-back, steady, self-sufficient, self-contained, stable,
reliable, dependable, ability to sense the worth of material things, presumption of
ownership, able to maintain, good follow through, slow, stubborn, slow-starter,
resistant to change, immovable, lazy, possessive.
Anatomical correlation: the throat, neck & shoulders/upper arms.
GEMINI: clever, expedient, curious, gregarious, versatile, communicative,
language skills, talkative, mimicking, imitating, intelligent short term solutions, adaptive
to changes in information, picks-up key words &buzz words readily, multi-tasked, easily
distracted, nervous, spread-too-thin, too many irons in the fire, shallow, gossipy, amoral.
Anatomical correlation: forearms, wrists, hands, fingers and lungs.
CANCER: instinctive, instinctive awareness of immediate security needs,
nurturing, mothering, parenting, sympathetic, sentimental, child-like, emotional, moody,
subjective, absorbs experience through feelings — emotional osmosis, sensitive to
immediate environment, reactive, crabby, lacks objectivity, overly emotional, immature.
Anatomical correlation: breasts & stomach – upper abdomen.
LEO: dynamic, take-charge, heroic, charismatic, leadership style, the
capacity to make things happen, can be warm & personable, strong personal style,
dramatic, colorful, playful but determined to be in charge as if the other person only
existed to support their endeavors, basic raw creative talent, proud, wounded-ego,
willful, boastful, ego-centric, arrogant.
Anatomical correlation: Mid-spine and back, chest & heart.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
VIRGO: focused, selective, logical, analytical, precise, organized, able to sort and
prioritize facts, discriminating, specialized, expert, expertise, perfectionist, practice-
makes-perfect, identifies with function, task oriented, technique/method/process-
oriented, picky, critical, exacting, narrow minded, can’t see the forest for the trees.
Anatomical correlation: lower abdominal area, intestines.
LIBRA: accommodating, cooperative, agreeable, social, conciliatory,
motivated by others and by relationships, peace maker, diplomatic, polite. Open to
negotiation, natural counselor, able to grasp both sides, unsure of self, indecisive,
procrastinating, vacillating, equivocal, overly compromised, too eager to please.
Anatomical correlation: Lower back, kidneys and bladder.
SCORPIO: intense, passionate, resourceful, resilient, a survivor, recuperative
ability, good in a crisis, has radar regarding power and control issues, penetrating
insight into the weaknesses of others, invasive, seductive, bonding & trust issues,
controlling, manipulative, jealous, obsessive, morbid, fixated, vindictive, lethal.
Anatomical correlation: sexual organs.
SAGITTARIUS: enthusiastic, optimistic, adventurous, outgoing, positive, lucky,
open, breezy, carefree, restless, philosophical, humorous, freedom loving, wants to
know “why,” seeks knowledge and adventure, seeks understanding/the truth and or
religious ideas, hypocritical, a joker, comedian, know-it-all, witty, sarcastic, prone to
exaggerate, excessive, overindulgent, wasteful, wild, reckless.
Anatomical correlation: hips & thighs.
CAPRICORN: serious, respectful, responsible, dutiful, useful, industrious,
disciplined, ambitious, committed, an achiever, goal oriented, agenda oriented, a
planner, administrator, manager of people and situations, competitive, executive type,
success oriented, motivated by status, aware of hierarchy, formal, overly status
conscious, too competitive, deep fear of failure, stiff, austere, condescending, strict,
harsh, cold.
Anatomical correlation: knees.
AQUARIUS: original, friendly but cool & detached, objective, intellectual,
individualistic, wants to be a part of and a part from at the same time, humanitarian,
seeks to contribute and belong without losing individuality, egalitarian, likes to circulate
freely, independent, a maverick, likes the abstract, eccentric, non-conformist,
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
exception-to-the- rule, belonging issues, rebellious, contradictory, elitist notions of
equality, fixed ideas, unfeeling.
Anatomical correlation: ankles, calves.
PISCES: compassionate, empathic, inspired, imaginative, psychic, extremely
adaptive, a chameleon, sensitive, a visionary, mystical, dreamer, spiritually oriented,
unconditional love, a healer, lyrical, poetic, musical, complex, complicated,
impressionable, confusing, confused, disoriented, misleading, evasive, deceptive,
fraudulent, a fake, escapist, addicted, overwhelmed, disillusioned .
Anatomical correlation: feet.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
KEY WORDS for the PLANETS:
SUN: will, will to be, will to live, willfulness, willingness, unwilling, vital, vitality, ego,
ego-centric, pride, the spark of life. The Sun is our core will, the “heart” of the matter.
Physical correlation: the heart, overall cell vitality maintained by the heart, vitality
associated with the sign and house the Sun is in.
Other associations: the father, important persons in one’s life, vital male influences.
MOON: moods, needs, emotions, emotional attachments, instincts, instinctive
response to surroundings, nesting instincts, nurturing, parenting, mothering, feelings of
security and insecurity, basic feelings of intuition, emotional-conditioning, instinctive
familiarity, sentiment, sentimental attachment.
Physical correlation: breasts, stomach, upper digestive tract, and emotional health —
problems related to emotional development during the first 3-4 years of life.
Other associations: mother, motherhood, family and family issues, important women in
life, home, domestic habits, real estate, property, furniture, supplies, food, garden,
professions related to home building, gardening, and landscaping.
MERCURY : the mind, intellect, thinking, reasoning, mental, communications,
connecting, speech, speaking, voice, conscious mental faculties, cognitive process,
thought process, learning process, translation of perceptions, mimicry, nervous energy,
mental problems (neurological & psychological), communication problems, speech
impairment, etc.
Physical correlation: nervous system, neurological functions associated with speech,
intelligence, and perception, etc. And like Gemini, the lungs & the hands.
Other associations: siblings, neighbors, close cousins, school/places of learning and
instruction - especially elementary or secondary schools & vocational schools and their
teachers & instructors, mail, email, correspondence in general, journals, diaries,
newsletters, newspapers, magazines, paperbacks, books — especially short stories &
popular novels, messengers, delivery trucks, cars, small trucks, bicycles, scooters, etc.
VENUS: values, worth, appreciation, social, social life, socialization, likes, dislikes,
tastes, aesthetics, ability to sense the worth of,, love, money, self-worth, abundance
issues, affable, amiable, attractive, attraction, charm, sensual, affection, affectionate,
sweet.
Physical correlation: tactile senses, smell, taste, the skin and the kidneys.
Other associations: partner, partnership, marriage, companionship, aesthetics, tastes in
art, fashion, styles, clothing, cosmetics, one’s flavor in desserts, candy, sweets, people
in the fashion & apparel industry, in the cosmetic industry, art galleries, the art world &
related businesses, confectioners, and all manner of sweet and dessert related
professions.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
MARS: action, aggression, assertive, agitation, anger, active, energetic, physical,
athletic, fighting, militant, combative, battling, fierce, blunt, direct, brutal, hot-headed,
impatient, rash, rowdy, rude, rage, raging, explosive, violent, panic, fear.
Physical correlation: adrenal glands, general muscle tone, like Aries — the head and
face, body movement or style (in addition to the Ascendant).
Other associations: athletes, sports, athletic coaches, military, soldiers, and police, law
enforcement, sports equipment manufacturers, munitions/weapons manufacturers and
the overall military/defense industry.
JUPITER: big, jovial, funny, hilarious, outrageous, expansive, large, extra, huge,
tremendous, gigantic, too much, exaggerated, excessive, extravagant, indulgent,
overindulgent, audacious, joyous, adventurous, opportunistic, theatrical, larger- than-
life, generalities, philosophies, code of living, one’s beliefs, one’s ethics, principles,
religion, truths, love of learning, big books, texts, encyclopedias, basic understanding of
life, morals, general scheme of right & wrong.
Physical correlation: the liver, (health-wise: overindulgence and obesity)
Other associations: traveling salespeople, people in the travel industry, airlines, trains,
ocean liners, semi-tractor-trailers, all long distance travel, comedians, religious leaders,
(politicians & actors are frequently represented by Jupiter’s birth position, but not
exclusively, there are other more diverse indicators, especially in the entertainment
world).
SATURN: structure, responsibility, obligation, duty, commitment, discipline,
consequences, careful, regulation, efficient, mature, established, restrictive, constrictive,
inhibited, obstacle, task, serious, sober, pessimistic, realistic, stern, austere, use of time,
cold, doubting, hard, harsh, laborious, sober, prudent, patient, silent, taciturn, crusty,
orderly.
Physical correlation: bones and teeth (structure).
Other associations: the law, punishment or sentence for a crime, Judges — especially
“strict” judges, legal discipline and sanction, the passing of laws, legislation enacted
(rather than when it is still being debated), i.e. the structure of the law, also the elderly,
and old age, older persons who taught you important lessons — strict teachers — or
grand parents who instilled discipline and structure, legal obligations and legally binding
commitments and contracts.
Note:  The outer planets, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto stay in the same sign
for a longer period of time than the other planets.
URANUS: individualistic, liberated, original, unique, inventive, independent, a
maverick, unusual, atypical, odd, strange, different, eccentric, bizarre, freaky, contrary,
rebellious, flip, chaotic, contradictory, “don’t give a damn” or pretending not to care,
non-conformist, unstable, erratic, “a risk taker,” thrill seeker, sudden, impulsive,
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
accident prone, a rebel, a reformer, the urge to reinvent everything, “an exception to
the rule,” cool and indifferent, the need for latitude — leeway, impulse-control
problems.
Physical correlations: circulatory system, ankles, and mutations – especially
malignancies and cancer. Uranus often plays a role in terms of physical “anomalies” or
aberrations, injuries due to unusual or freak accidents, and sudden slips; likewise,
Uranus “accelerates” or speeds-up any process.
Other associations: new science, technology, high-tech, computers, space age,
astronauts, new airplanes & experimental aircraft, inventions/patents, social
revolutions, an instigator of revolt or anarchy, original or unique contributions,
“treasure your exceptions,” mutations, risk takers, race car drivers, test pilots, sudden
mishaps, accidents - especially bizarre accidents.
NEPTUNE: sensitive, psychic, empathic, empathetic, compassionate, vulnerable,
overwhelmed, intuitive, imaginative, dreamy, inspired, idealized, visualized, a spiritual
vision, mystical, inspiration/disillusionment, fantasy, dream, imagination, illusion,
confusion, delusion, deception, pretending, fake, disguised, escapism, addiction,
feelings of blissfulness and euphoria.
Physical associations: the feet, the pineal gland, allergic reactions, allergies, hard to
diagnose disorders, psychosomatic disorders, spiritual problems — at the root of, sleep-
disorders, seasonal-disorders, hallucinations, psychic problems, (in the extreme -
spiritual possession, if you believe in such things), illnesses brought on by avoidance,
neglect, or addictions.
Other associations: inspired artists, film makers, photographers, musicians, dancers,
film actors/film industry in general, mystics, psychics, spiritualists, healers in general
(natural healers), psychic healers, miracles, miracle workers, channelers – type of
psychic, meditation, yoga, spiritual leaders, the doorway to the spiritual world, psychic
phenomena, the experience of spiritual or unconditional love, universal compassion,
hospitals, ashrams, healing temples, places of retreat, prisons, charity, and charitable
organizations. Other areas also include literal connections with the ocean, i.e. fishermen,
ships, boats, seafood, etc. Also, drugs, pharmacies, pharmacists, etc., bar tenders, bar or
tavern owners, liquor and alcohol, drug addicts & alcoholics .
or
PLUTO: rebirth, death, transformation, power, survival, life & death, crisis,
confrontation, control, Intense, invasive, obsessive, core issues, bottom line,
fundamental change, terminal, turmoil, upheaval, resourceful, resilient, turbulent,
controversy, reemergence, purge, eliminate, purify, streamline, reduce to essence,
consolidate, concise, deadly, kill or be killed, violence.
Physical correlations: the reproductive system, hormones/the controllers, the ability to
regenerate cells, the general elimination of toxins or poisons in the system, terminal or
life threatening illnesses often connect with Pluto in some way (depending on many
other factors), sexually transmitted diseases or illnesses, breakdowns in the immune
system, the attempt to fundamentally rejuvenate one’s health, survival mechanisms
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 7
Other associations: the underworld, crime, gangsters, mobs, mob violence, power
battles, control battles, all survival related equipment such as in the medical field, i.e.
Emergency Medical Technicians etc., emergency room personnel, undertakers,
cemeteries, life insurance companies, the insurance industry, retirement investments,
tax auditors, tax audits, taxes, (death & taxes), researchers of all kinds, detectives,
investigators, spies, covert operations/special operations, sex related businesses &
professions, i.e. gynecologists, sex therapists, prostitutes, gigolos, etc., also power
generation, especially oil, the petroleum industry, and “power” or energy companies in
general, plutonium, atomic energy, professions which reclaim energy, or make use of
discarded or thrown away items, i.e. salvage, garbage, landfills.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 8
Key Words for the Lunar Nodes or South Node & North Node:
SOUTH NODE
NORTH NODE
security
learning to trust
old
new
familiar
unfamiliar
playing it safe
fresh new growth/development
bored
taking risks
touching base
change
stuck
over reaching
reliable
unsure
over developed
getting in over your head
habits
intention (intent)
going through the motions
the process of becoming
doing what you’re used to
discovery, aptitude
completion
fulfillment
karma
dharma (soul’s intent)
Note: Please refer to my book “The Soul Purpose” for key words through the signs for
the Lunar Nodes.
ASCENDANT (ASC) or RISING SIGN:
The Ascendant is the point of sunrise on the Eastern Horizon, i.e. the sign rising on the
Eastern Horizon. The meanings and key words assigned to the 1st house in the list that
follows for the houses are the same for the ASC. The easiest way to remember what
the ASC is about is to think of it as the “mask” or “persona” we all wear. The ASC is the
outer personality; it has a lot to do with first impression and how we come across in the
beginning. It’s our outer demeanor and the basic orientation of our personality. We
usually readily identify ourselves with the traits and characteristics of our ASC and will
acknowledge, “that’s me.”
Planets that closely aspect the ASC or are conjunct (close to) the ASC significantly
influence the ASC.
THE MIDHEAVEN (MC)
The Mid-heaven is the true noon point on the chart, MC being the abbreviation for the
Latin Medium Coeli, literally middle day. The meanings and key words listed for the
10th house in the list that follows for the house are likewise the same for the MC.
However, you can think of the MC as the peak of the 10th house issues, of reputation,
professional identity and status etc. The sign on the MC is indicative of professional
aspirations, goals, and titles, as well as the psychological issues associated with the sign
itself. Think of the sign on the MC in the context of public life, high profile, and visibility
issues.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 9
KEY WORDS for THE ASTROLOGICAL “HOUSES”
First House/Ascendant: appearance, persona, personality, physical body type and facial
characteristics, surface features, readily identifiable traits, body language, basic self orientation,
self consciousness, self awareness, “that’s me,” outer personality development in response to
early environment.
Second House: ownership, having, possessions, self worth, what one values about life and self,
abundance issues, money and attitudes about money, the material world, “that’s mine!,” “Is it
worth it?”, “What do I want?” or “What will I let myself have.”
Third House: communication development in one’s common sphere. Mental orientation and
style of communication, the basic mental construct of one’s thinking and reasoning style -
especially in regards to one’s thinking and way of expressing oneself - in part influenced by -
siblings, cousins and relatives, neighbors, neighborhood or regional factors, grammar school,
high school, short trips, articles, newspapers, media, gossip, periodicals, newsletters etc. “The
lower mind.” “The sidewalk of life.” This is the territory of one’s own backyard or neighborhood,
within which one develops familiar associations in regards to immediate vicinity.
Fourth House: home, territory, private environment, “turf’, property, housing, belonging to
place, domestic sphere, nest, security, family, roots, parental patterning as relates to
environment, parental role playing, “who you are in the middle of the night,” your “midnight
self,” or more “private/personal self.” Your “connection to your environment.”
Fifth House: celebration, creativity, the “child within” or the “child in each of us,” children - in
the sense of relating to children or that part of your being that connects to being a child, play,
fun, recreation, games, drama, the “fun of being alive,” “the creative pageantry of life,” “your
personal rules or attitudes about what constitutes “play” or “just kidding around.” Speculation,
dating in early stages of courtship, adolescence.
Sixth House: schedule, day to day routine, job or service provided - as in job functions, that
which is part of your work routine, job environment and job conditions, health - primarily in
terms of day to day habits and routine/occupational hazards etc., health habits, organizational
issues, scheduling issues. This is the “quality of life” house simply in term of how you organize
your routine.
Seventh House: partnership, companionship, marriage, close one to one relationships, others,
“you vs. me,” us, we, the type of partner you attract and or the conditions or circumstances of
partnership, the issues of partnership, what one tends to “project” onto others.
Eighth House: the most intense issues of life, i.e. death, sex, intimacy, the “bonding process,”
other people’s money, partner’s money, shared ownership issues, borrowed or loaned money,
taxes, insurance, inheritance, bartering, bargaining etc., also “power projections, envy and
jealousy.” This is the “crisis house” of “confrontation” which can lead to transformation, rebirth,
and metamorphosis.
Ninth House: the higher mind, concepts, conceptual thinking, philosophical beliefs and
orientation, religion, ethics, moral code• opinion, higher education, college, universities,
courses and classes beyond basic education, long distance or international travel, learning
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 10
adventures, the “big picture,” and “expansive life,” policies and principles, wisdom and “truth.”
The higher courts, legal precedents.
Tenth House: public identity, reputation, status, recognition, “what you want to be known as,”
social status, career, professional status, professional goals, status consciousness, high profile,
visible, exposed to the public, “who you are out in the world.”
Eleventh House: peers, friends, groups, associates, affiliations, acquaintances, your circle of
people, the people you hang out with, clubs, organizations, belonging issues, membership,
mixing and mingling, circulating, “they,” team work, team or group issues, the “herd,” social
consciousness, community involvement, humanitarian activity.
Twelfth House: the unconscious, the awakening consciousness, the most “sensitive” issues,
escape, escapism, seclusion, sanctuary, fantasy, dreams, extreme sensitivity to the world, a
mystical or spiritual orientation, behind the scenes, “inspired by the masses,” identification with
the underdog, the experience of being overwhelmed by life, the hermit, hospital experiences,
prisons, monasteries, sanctuary, places of retreat etc.