www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Class Four:  More about ASPECTS
“Practicing Interpreting the Aspects”
© www.nodoor.com
Remember the ORB includes both applying and separating aspects.
If the ORB is 7 degrees, this means 7 degrees applying and 7
degrees separating.  So the total orb range actually covers 14
degrees.
Examples of applying and separating aspects:
Mia has
13°
9°
1. Mars is the faster moving planet
2. Mars is 4 degrees past 9 degrees of Aquarius
3. Mars has already made an exact square with Pluto
ANSWER: Mars is separating from the square with Pluto
Applying and separating aspects:
o Identify the  faster moving planet
o Compare the degrees with the slower moving
planet
o If the faster moving planet is before the exact
aspect then the aspect is applying, if after it is
separating
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
Tenya has
7°
13°
1. Mercury is the faster moving planet
2. Mercury is 6 degrees from 13 degrees
3. Mercury has not yet made the exact trine
Answer: Mercury is applying to the trine
Tian has
27°
25°
1. Mercury is the faster moving planet
2. Mercury is 2 degrees past 25 degrees
3. Mercury has already made the exact
sextile
Answer: Mercury is separating from the sextile
Xin Bo has
15°
14°
1.
Venus is the faster moving planet
2.
Venus is 1 degree past 14 degrees
3.
Venus has already made the exact
semi-sextile
Answer: Venus is separating from the semi-sextile
ANSWER THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS:
1. Which of the above has access to an ample inventory of
appliances?________________
2. Who is working on making herself more confident
physically?_________________
3. Who has natural pitch?___________________
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
4. Whose lab work notes are copied by others in chemistry
class?
Yes an applying aspect has more momentum and force, and there
are some astrologers that will shorten the orb of the separating
aspect.  However, most astrologers do not, even though most
astrologers consider an applying aspect more significant than a
separating aspect.  However, you must still pay attention to how
close the aspect is to being exact!  The closer to exact the more
potent it is.
Suppose for example you had the following aspect combination.
12⁰
10’
10⁰
30'
5⁰
39’
10⁰
30'
In both cases Mars is the slower moving planet.  In the case of the Moon in Sagittarius trine
Mars in Leo the aspect is a “separating” trine by 1 degree and 40 minutes.  Whereas Mercury
in Aquarius is “applying” to the opposition by 4 degrees 51 minutes; therefore the Moon is
making the closest aspect in this case even though it is separating.  Both aspects are in effect,
but the Moon Mars trine is closer and this needs to be taken into account when considering
how Mars functions for this person.
Aren’t applying aspects more significant than separating aspects?
Why isn’t the orb of a separating aspect less?  For example, why
not make the applying aspect 7 degrees and the separating aspect
only 3 degrees?  Then the total orb range would be 10 degrees.
“My boyfriend’s Mercury in Pisces is
opposite his Saturn in Virgo, but
squares his Uranus in Sagittarius, so I
wonder if the reason he forgets to call
me back is because Uranus cancels
out his Saturn influence?”
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
Answer: NO!  One aspect does not “cancel out” another, both aspects continue to
operate and express.  Learning how to interpret such aspect combinations is the “art”
of interpretation.  Perhaps this young woman’s boyfriend is preoccupied with his
work, which fits his Mercury Saturn aspect; or maybe he doesn’t like spending too
much time talking on the phone or even texting.  Regardless, Uranus does not cancel
out his Saturn influence, nor does Saturn cancel out his Uranus influence.  His
communication style would still be erratic (Uranus), though in the positive sense he
would also have a more original mind and quick unique, interesting or offbeat insights.
Likewise he has Mercury in Pisces, so he has quite an imagination and ability to
visualize things, though obviously he can be evasive (Pisces) in communication
(Mercury).  The opposition with Saturn “reminds” him to be more responsible in his
communications with others, helping him to communicate at least the essential facts
(Saturn in Virgo).  This could be the Mercury position of a very creative scientist, even
a “theoretical” (Uranus) scientist.  Mercury Saturn aspects often show a scientific
mind-set, even in Pisces, and the square with Uranus adds originality and
inventiveness to his way of looking at things.  He is “serious” and “cautious” – good
Saturn attributes; but he can also “think outside of the box” and be more
experimental - both expressions of Uranus.  His girlfriend needs to realize that her
boyfriend’s style of communication is more complex, and though sometimes he will
impulsively engage in stimulating conversation or frequent texts (Mercury – Uranus),
he likes to be quiet as well (Mercury – Saturn) and is thoughtful and more careful in
what he says or doesn’t say – especially with serious subjects or conversations laden
with the potential for more serious consequences.
Let’s reexamine the earlier example involving Mars in Leo.
12⁰
10’
10⁰
30'
5⁰
39’
10⁰
30'
A man with the Moon in Sagittarius trine Mars in Leo would
tend to laugh (Sagittarius) more readily and easily when
asserting himself, or being playful or showing off (Leo), and
likes to tease.  However, laughter is also a good stress reducer
and this trine makes for a smooth defense to temporarily hurt
pride (Mars in Leo),  and a similar response to the early stages
of anger or sense of a threat.  However, he can also be
argumentative and get into a debate with others (Mercury opposite Mars) or engage
in lively conversation.  Yet, because the trine is significantly closer he will smile or
laugh first before challenging someone’s ideas, or offering his own intellectual
(Mercury in Aquarius) point of view.  In this was both aspects work “together” but the
closer aspect, in this case a trine, expresses itself a bit more obviously.  One could say
that this man’s humor tends to disarm others, making it easier for him to make his
point.  Thus these two aspects function together in the way in which they manifest in
the person.  This is what is meant be the “art of interpretation.”
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
Let’s look at some other examples of aspects and aspect combinations:
11⁰
19’
13⁰
21’ What comes to mind when you see this aspect?
Let’s break this aspect down.  Venus is in Gemini, a socially communicative sign.  Any aspect
between Venus and Pluto tends to
intensify the social experience, because
the person feels or senses the shifting
undercurrents of power, control and trust.
The quincunx is an aspect of
“adjustment.”  Let’s assume the
interaction in the picture on the left
involves a business situation, and the
womanis the one born with the Venus
quincunx Pluto apect.  Let’s say the man
is a “client” and she is showing him some
potential investment property.  She has taken a phone call, yet she is keenly aware of her
client’s holding his watch up and looking away.  She knows how valuable “he is” and that
closing this deal could bring her a fat commission.   However, the call is from another wealthy
client that is also interested in this same property.  She is having to “adujst” her interaction
with the present client to respond to the potential gain from another client.  Her Venus in
Gemini inclines her to be communicative and verbally responsive, but the aspect with Pluto
shows she is more aware of the potential for gain or loss.  Pluto does relate to the use of
resources, or shared resources.  She doesn’t want to alienate the client that is with her by
taking too long on the phone but she also doesn’t want to lose a chance to interact with the
other client either.  Hence she is making an adjustment in a business interaction regarding
appropriate social behavior.  Were this call of a social nature she would most likely not have
taken it.   It is also possible that she may let a few words slip from her phone call, letting the
client that is with her know “indirectly” that he has some competition for this property.  Such
indirect manipulation would be typical of a qunicunx involving Pluto.  With Venus and Pluto
there is a bit of seduction going on here, though this is part of a power maneuver consistent
with such a Venus quincunx Pluto aspect.
A quincunx aspect requires some effort, some work, but not nearly as much effort as a square
or opposition.  A square would exhibit anxiety,  or have to work harder to overcome anxiety
and fear. “Oh my god! I can’t believe my other client is calling!  What should I do!  I might
alienate this client if I take this call, but I don’t want to lose the other client either!”  An
oppostion with Venus and Pluto would be more direct, but also experience more tension than
the quincunx.  With the opposition she would take the call and walk away a bit, covering the
conversation.  She would decide either to say nothing to the client that is there, or she might
approach the client that is with her after the phone call and say to the client that is with her:
“I must tell you, that call was from another party that is interested in this same property.  He
will  becoming by tomorrow to take a look at it.”  She may hope that her directness will
impress him, but it also “challenges” him – which is more the nature of an opposition.  With
the opposition she runs the risk of more direct questioning from her client, or that he will
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
believe she is just trying to overtly manipulate him – which she is!  However, if he is a cunning
businessman he doesn’t take this personally.
19⁰
20’
20⁰
41’  What do you think of when you see this aspect?
A sextile is an opportunity aspect.  Here the opportunity
involves the Sun and Saturn.  In this case Saturn is in it’s own
sign “Capricorn” – especially associated with business and
attaining professional status.  Assuming the young man at the
left was born with this aspect, we can expect that he is
willing (Sun) to do the work (Saturn) that is necessary to
achieve his goals.  However we can also guess that he will
take advantage of opportunities and is serious in his desire to
achieve and accomplish his plans.  The seductive qualities of
Scorpio are represented here as a “chance” to be successful.
Scorpio is about “control” and Capricorn is about
management, so this young man is likely to gravitate towards
professional roles in management and is likely to work his way up the corporate or business
ladder to upper management.  There is a social quality to a “sextile,” and this man could
capitalize on social introductions in the business sector.  This same aspect implies that his
father may have taught him some very practical lessons growing up.
What other examples might express this aspect?  Work on other aspect examples too!