www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module 10
Interpretation continued – Sample Charts!
© www.nodoor.com
I want to know how to read a chart vocationally.  Could we look at my birth
chart as an example?  I feel my chart is a bit complex in this regards.  My MC is
in Scorpio closely quincunx Jupiter, sextile my Mercury in Virgo in the 8th house,
and in an out-of-sign trine with my North Node in Aries, plus my MC is widely
square my Moon!  I am not sure how to interpret all of this?  I went to college
early at 16 as a computer science major and then switched to sociology and
then psychology, where I finally got my degree.  I was doing an internship at a
psychology when I discovered astrology about two years ago.  Now I think I want
to be a professional astrologer.  How is this supported astrologically?
She has accurately identified the aspects to her MC, but what else is relevant to her career story?
First it is important to establish an overall outline that prioritizes her professional orientation,
attributes and issues.
How do you establish priorities regarding career?
NODOOR GIRL
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
Career Priorities
Outline
I. Sign and house positions of the Lunar Nodes.
A. The Lunar Nodes show key themes of fulfillment in life versus habit pattern
tendencies.  It is important to understand this theme first.
B. The associate planets by sign first, and then the associate planet by house
second, help to identify specific areas of potential career ability and
development.  This analysis includes the important aspects that these planets
make.
c. Aspects to the Lunar Nodes further clarify life path issues that will be linked
to career.
II. The Midheaven
A.  Planets in the 10th House
B. The sign of the MC
C. The associate planet of the MC, it’s house position and how it is aspected
D. Aspects to the MC
III. The 6th House
A. Planets in the 6th House
B. The sign on the 6th House Cusp
C.  The associate planet of the 6th House and how it is aspected
IV. The 2nd House
A. Planets in the 2nd House
B. The sign on the 2nd House Cusp
C. The associate planet of the 2nd house and how it is aspected
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
Let’s analyze Nodoor Girl’s chart using this basic vocational outline.
I. North Node in Aries – South Node in Libra
Mars in the 7th house in Virgo – Venus in the 8th house in Virgo
(Mercury in Virgo is the final dispositor of both Mars and Venus.)
Mars is quincunx the ASC, sextile Pluto, conjunct the Sun, trine Neptune and
square Saturn.
Venus is square Saturn, conjunct the Sun and square Uranus
The North Node is in the 2nd House:
Venus is in Virgo in the 8th House (aspects already noted)
The South Node is in the 8th House:
Pluto is in Scorpio in the 9th house and square the ASC, sextile Mars, sextile the
Sun, and sextile Neptune
The Lunar Nodes are square Neptune, and the South Node is conjunct Mercury
ll. The MC is in Scorpio
(Saturn is “technically” in the 10th House but conjunct the 11th house cusp,
square the Sun, Venus, and Mars)
Pluto is in Scorpio in the 9th house (aspects previously noted)
Aspects the MC: quincunx Jupiter, , sextile Mercury in Virgo in the 8th house, in
an out-of-sign trine with the North Node in Aries, and widely square the Moon
III. The 6th House is in Cancer
The Moon is in Aquarius in the 1st House
The Moon is sextile Uranus and Jupiter and widely square the MC
IV. The 2nd House is in Pisces
The North Node is in Aries in the 2nd House
Neptune is in Capricorn in the 11th house (near the 12th House cusp) and square
the Lunar Nodes and trine Mars