www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
Aspects, signs, planets and houses combined
© www.nodoor.com
Now that you’ve learned about aspect combinations, let’s connect the aspects with
the houses.  Remember, the houses are about “place” or “setting.”  The houses will
tell us “where” something is likely to manifest.
The First House is the place of one’s body, and has a lot to do with our sense of
“personal space.”  The ASC is the focal point of the 1st House, and shows the assertion
of our outer personality, our “persona” or the “mask we wear.”  An interesting
phenomenon to note regarding the ASC and the 1st House is when the ASC is in a late
degree of a sign, most of the 1st House will be in the following sign.  For example, the
legendary American film actor Marlon Brando had 28 degrees of Scorpio Rising, but
Sagittarius took up most of his 1st House – accentuated by Jupiter in the Sagittarius in
the 1st House.
The intensity of Marlon Brando’s
Scorpio Rising persona was
recognized early on.  However, as he
aged he gained a lot of weight and
was infamous for his overindulgence
and expanding girth – in contrast
with the sexy  muscular screen idol of
the 1950’s.  He laughed at critics and
preferred his own adventurous life style that culminated in his living
in Tahiti in the South Pacific.  In addition he asserted his strong philosophical beliefs, famously
having a Native American woman appear for him at the Oscar Ceremonies and “refuse” to accept
his Oscar for Best Actor for the Godfather in protest to the historical treatment of Native American
people.  Thus while Marlon Brando’s Scorpio ASC showed in his eyes and in the intensity of his
performances, so too did his body reflect the expansiveness of Sagittarius and Jupiter in
Sagittarius, along with his assertion of his Sagittarian assertion of his beliefs.  In the two photos
above you can see both the Scorpio and the Sagittarian features that made up his first house and
expressed themselves in obvious ways in his personality and body type.
IAC Module 5
I can understand that the 7th House is the arena of partnership,
and the 9th House might be higher education or universities, or
that the 11th House might refer to a team or group environment,
but what is the place or setting of the 1st House?  I have a hard
time grasping the concept of this house as a place.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
[The birth time of 10:36 PM or 22:36 is a rectified birth time, rectified by respected astrologer
Robert Jansky in the 1970’s, which I verified in a class with him in 1978.  Brando’s birth certificate
stated 11:00 PM or 23:00.]
What other aspects do you notice in the chart of Marlon Brando above?
Notice that both the Sun and Moon are square Pluto.  Even though this is a separating aspect, you
can see that the square is well within orb of 7 degrees, and especially close with the Moon.  We
know that squares between personal planets and Pluto are challenging and correspond to an
intense experience of life.  With Scorpio Rising and Pluto in the 8th house (it’s own house) this
intensity is magnified.  However, what house contains the Sun and Moon?  The 5th House!  Among
other things, we know that this house of “play” is also associated with acting and entertainment.
Thus the intensity of Pluto is expressed theatrically through the creative medium of film and stage.
This is an obvious example of the important way that houses represent the potential arena or field
within which planets and aspect combinations are likely to be expressed.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
Consider the following quote regarding Marlon Brando’s early life:
“Acting was a skill he honed as a child, the lonely son of alcoholic parents. With his father away on
the road, and his mother frequently intoxicated to the point of stupefaction, the young Bud would
play-act for her to draw her out of her stupor and to attract her attention and love. His mother was
exceedingly neglectful, but he loved her, particularly for instilling in him a love of nature, a feeling
which informed his character Paul in "Last Tango in Paris" (1972) when he is recalling his childhood
for his young lover Jeanne. "I don't have many good memories," Paul confesses, and neither did
Brando of his childhood. Sometimes he had to go down to the town jail to pick up his mother after
she had spent the night in the drunk tank and bring her home, events that traumatized the young
boy but may have been the grain that irritated the oyster of his talent, producing the pearls of his
performances. Anthony Quinn, his Oscar-winning co-star in Viva Zapata! (1952) told Brando's first
wife Anna Kashfi, "I admire Marlon's talent, but I don't envy the pain that created it."
Acting was obviously an outlet for Brando’s emotionally turbulent early life.  Thus
the 5th House represented the “solution” of “place” in his story!
“What about someone born on the same month,
day and year as Marlon Brando but at a different
time?  Their Moon – Sun square Pluto would be in
different houses.  How might this manifest?  What
solutions might other houses offer these
challenging aspects?”
Examples:
10th House
1st House
Career and public life become the outlet for his intensity.  This could be a
businessman obsessed with success and embroiled in power battles on his way to
gaining market control for his company.  Perhaps his parents worked together, or
owned a store or a small business.  Their struggle to survive made a deep imprint
upon him growing up, and he is determined to surmount all challenges.  Now Pluto
is in his 1st house  and he identifies himself as a survivor, his body and facial features
combine the sign Cancer with Pluto.  The typical round face of Cancer Rising reveals
more intense eyes, and the body is more compact conveying more power than
would be typical for Cancer Rising.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
9th House
12th House
Now his philosophies and belief systems become an outlet for his intensity. As a
college student he would likely have confronted his professors and  been known for
his passionate quest for the truth.  If he became a professor or an author, he would
likely espouse controversial opinions and beliefs.  His concepts would tend to arouse
strong passions.  If he became an attorney he might take on cases that could
fundamentally alter case law or become involved in controversial cases that
challenge people’s ideas about right and wrong.  Perhaps his parents were
immigrants from another country whose religious beliefs were at odds with the
environment he grew-up in.  Maybe the beliefs of his parents led their persecution,
and now his confrontational ways reflect an intense need to fight the battles his
parents were not as capable of fighting.
“My Mars in Sagittarius is opposite my Venus in Gemini.
Do you think that’s why I keep attracting guys that don’t
stick around?  What can I do to keep them interested in
me longer?  They come on really strong at first and then
seem to wander off.” Astrologer: “Do you think you’re
interesting?”
Woman: “I don’t know, I guess I am?”
Astrologer: “Do you feel confident in your knowledge of things?”
Woman: “Maybe sometimes…”
Astrologer: “You see, if you don’t think you’re interesting how can you expect
someone else to?  Talk about what interests you.  Focus on ideas and points of view
that are stimulating to you.  Pursue new subjects that fascinate you, and maybe
you’ll find a guy becoming equally fascinated with you!  You also need to admit your
own love of freedom too, and not fear that your independence might be interpreted
to mean that you’re not interested in them.”
Woman: “Okay, but my Mars is in the 11th House and my Venus is in the 5th House.
How could that help or hurt my situation?”
Astrologer: “You could join groups or associations, such as a hiking club, or a travel
group, or take out a membership in Natural History Museum, and go to parties or
special events that sponsor such groups or organizations. Find a group to participate
in that really interests you and contribute your talent for putting together social
events and networking.  This is bound to widen your circle of associates and
increase the chances of you connecting with someone.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
This young woman has Venus in Aquarius in the 2nd
House square Uranus in Scorpio in the 11th House.
What is suggested by this aspect combination and
house placement?
What are the challenges of this square?
In what ways do the house placements suggest she
might develop herself in beneficial ways?
What questions would you ask her?
What kinds of options would you discuss with her?
Based upon the information above what do you
think her Rising Sign is?