www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module9
Introduction to Interpretation – Sample Charts!
© www.nodoor.com
These are BASIC RULES and should be followed when attempting to
understand any chart.
1. The houses always keep their essential meanings.
a. The 1st House is always about appearance and the body and outer
personality.
b. The 2nd House is always about money, attitudes about money, how money is
spent, how money is earned, and shows what is worth-it or of value to
someone.
c. The 3rd House is always about communication, elementary and high school,
siblings, cousins, short term transportation, neighborhood influences, lower
mind, lower courts, etc.
d. The 4th House is always about home, family, children, environment,
property, and privacy.
e. The 5th House is always about play, speculation, children’s personalities or
behaviors, creative self-expression, special projects – project oriented
activity.
f. The 6th House is always about one’s job, conditions of work, co-workers,
health, day-to-day routine, and schedule, etc.
g. The 7th House is always about relationships, partnership, marriage, and
companionship.
h. The 8th House is always about partner’s money, shared money or resources
– meaning “things you share with others that are close with you.”  Intimacy
issues, sexual issues and behavior, trust issues, taxes, inheritance,
insurance, death.
i. The 9th House is always about higher education, the higher courts,
principles, philosophy, beliefs, religion, long distance travel, etc.
j. The 10th House is always about career, public life, responsibility,
reputation, boss, and professional aspirations.
k. The 11th House is always about groups, associations, social network, clubs,
organizations, circle of friends, belonging and acceptance issues.
l. The 12th House is always about the need to make the world a better place,
devotion to the masses, and spiritual concerns, inspiration vs.
disillusionment, the need for seclusion, retreat, or sanctuary, monasteries,
temples, places of retreat, hospitals, prisons and mental institutions, etc.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
2. The planets or points contained in a house have priority over the
associate planet.
This means the planets in the house are more important than the planet
associated with the house by the sign on the cusp.
3. The sign on the house cusp indicates how the essential meaning of
the house will be expressed.
This means that the sign on the house cusp is important.  For example the sign
Gemini on the 6th House cusp implies that short term transportation,
communication and variety are obvious features of ones job.
4. An intercepted sign will also express itself in the house; especially
if there are planets in this intercepted sign.
An intercepted sign is not swallowed-up by the house.  If Jupiter is
intercepted in Capricorn in the 2nd House it will still express itself in a
Capricorn way!  Spending money on something that conveys STATUS is still
going to happen!
5. The sign of the associate planet provides additional information
about the meaning of the house.
This means that the sign of the associate planet tell you more about what the
house is about.  If Capricorn is on the 2nd house cusp and Saturn is in Scorpio,
then concern about financial security is more intense than if Saturn was in
Pisces.
6. Aspects to the associate planet also provides additional
information about the meaning of the house.
Aspects SIGNIFICANTLY MODIFY the expression of the planet and ADD
MORE COMPLICATIONS!  If Libra was on the 8th house cusp and Venus was
square Uranus, there might be some concerns over the stability of partner’s
money.
7. The house the associate planet is in provides more information
about the house it is associated with.
This has been added, due to our mention of this in last week’s webinar.  This
means that the house the associate planet falls in can tell us more about the
house it is associated with.  For example: If Sagittarius was on the 11th House
Cusp and Jupiter was in the 6th house, then most of this persons friends,
clubs, or organizations they belong to, would tend to be connected in some way
with their job.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 7
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 8
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 9
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 10
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 11
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 12
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 13
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 14
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 15
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 16
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 17
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 18
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 19
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 20
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 21
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 22
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 23
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 24
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 25
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 26
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 27
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 28
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 29
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 30
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 31
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 32
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 33