www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
Intermediate Astrology Course Module 8
House Rulers/Associate Planets, with sample charts
© www.nodoor.com
Some Basic Rules for Chart Analysis
(The house “ruler” is termed the “associate” planet.)
 The houses always keep their essential meanings.
 The planets or points contained in a house have priority
over the associate planet.
 The sign on the house cusp indicates how the essential
meaning of the house will be expressed.
 An intercepted sign will also express itself in the house;
especially if there are planets in this intercepted sign.
 The sign of the associate planet provides additional
information about the meaning of the house.
 Aspects to the associate planet also provides additional
information about the meaning of the house.
Perhaps this is Pisces on the IC, or
Neptune in the 4th house, or the Moon in
the 4th house trine Neptune?   Now, let’s
look at some chart examples…
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
The houses always keep their essential meanings.
Chart Sample:
Even with Libra Rising and all of the houses in signs opposite their
natural associate sign, the house still retain their basic essential
meanings!
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
The planets or points contained in a house have priority over
the associate planet.
Chart Sample:
Even though the sign Capricorn is on the Descendant or 7th house cusp,
making Saturn the associate planet for the 7th house, both Jupiter and
the Sun express themselves in obvious 7th house ways.  This individual
shows continued enthusiasm for his full-time consultations even now at
the age of seventy-eight.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
The sign on the house cusp indicates how the essential meaning
of the house will be expressed.
Chart Sample:
Virgo on the 8th house cusp indicates that precision might be used in
research or detailed accounting applied in tabulating jointly held
resources or accounts.  [Libra intercepted in the 8th shows that
partnership and cooperation might characterize the obtaining of
financial support from others, or joint efforts in pursuing research
projects.]
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
An intercepted sign will also express itself in the house;
especially if there are planets in this intercepted sign.
Chart Sample:
Leo is intercepted along with Pluto in the 8th house, yet resiliency and
some ability to negotiate, bargain, or barter in dealings or
confrontations with partners is evident.  The recuperative attributes
of Pluto are enhanced by being in its own house, and the interception of
Leo does nothing to diminish the close sextile with the Sun – also the
associate body for Leo!
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
The sign of the associate planet provides additional
information about the meaning of the house.
Chart Sample:
Leo on the 6th house cusp makes the Sun the associate body.  The Sun
in Taurus suggests a reliable sturdy individual not inclined to change
jobs, and though this man demonstrated stubborn stamina in his
efforts to make more money in his work, his job record was unusually
eclectic…
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 7
Aspects to the associate planet also provides additional
information about the meaning of the house.
Chart Sample:
(same chart!)
The Sun opposing both Saturn and Uranus, along with an out-of-sign square with
Jupiter, is mirrored by the following job record: selling newspapers, music combo as
a teen, college laundry, army (WWI), film extra, manual laborer, ditch digger, tree
pruner, private tutor, script writer, book-seller, door-to-door salesman, film-editor,
film-lab assistant, comedy writer, screenwriter, and film director.  Finally as a film
director, he became the most successful and innovative film director in Hollywood
in the 1930’s.  This is the birth chart of 3 time Academy Award WinnerDirector
Frank Capra.  Under Capra’s direction his film crews became known for innovation,
reliability, quality work, time and money saving techniques, and their expertise and
craftsmanship. [This shows how important the aspects are!]