www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module 4
Geocentric Zodiacal Cycles of the Sun, Moon and Planets
© www.nodoor.com
How fast do the planets move through the
zodiac?  Knowing this can help you more
easily determine whether an aspect is
applying or separating.  Remember, all
aspects represent a phase in a cycle.
Consider that there are 8 major planetary
objects plus the Sun and Moon = 10 celestial
objects. The Lunar Nodes are not objects of
course, but an index to the Moon’s orbit
around the earth.
Geocentric Zodiacal Cycles:
MOON – completes cycle through the zodiac in 27.322 days – called the
Sidereal Month.  Completes cycle from one New Moon to the next in 29.531
days – called the Synodic Month.  The Moon NEVER retrogrades.  It is the only
truly geocentric body, meaning – the only celestial body physically orbiting earth.
MERCURY - because Mercury goes Retrograde 3 times a year it
“appears” to take Mercury approximately 377 days to completely cycle
through the zodiac, (in fact Mercury orbits the Sun every 88 days).  However,
Mercury can move faster than any planet through a sign, appearing to cover 2
degrees in one day at its fastest and can speed through an entire sign
in 17 days.  Mercury’s closeness to the Sun means that the Sun and
Mercury are never more than 28 degrees apart, the only major
aspect the Sun and Mercury can make is the conjunction.Mercury and Venus
can never be more than 78 degrees apart in the zodiac and therefore Mercury
and Venus can only make 3 aspects: a conjunction, semi-sextile, or sextile.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
VENUS – moves through the 12 signs of the zodiac in approximately 410
days, but Venus Retrogrades every 19 months, which “appears” to slow Venus
down as it approaches, enters, and then exits the retrograde period.
However, Venus is the 3rd fastest celestial object after the Moon and Mercury and
can speed through a zodiac sign in 24 days.  However, because the Sun and Venus
are never more than 48 degrees apart in the zodiac, the only aspects they can
make to each other are the conjunction and the semi-sextile.[Also the semi-square]
SUN – moves through the 12 signs in 12 months, 365.25 days
MARS – moves through the 12 signs in 23 months, or nearly 2
years.
JUPITER – moves through the 12 signs in 12 years (11.9 years),
spending approximately 1 year in each sign.
LUNAR NODES – move through the 12 signs in 18.6 years,
spending approximately 18.6 months in each sign.
SATURN – moves through the 12 signs in approximately 29 years,
spending approximately 2 & ½ years in each sign.
URANUS – moves through the 12 signs in approximately 84 years,
spending approximately 7 years in each sign.
NEPTUNE – moves through the 12 signs in approximately 165
years, spending about 13.75 years in each sign.
PLUTO – moves through the 12 signs in approximately 248 years,
spending varying lengths in each sign due to its highly elliptical
orbit.