www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module Two:  Introducing the Aspects
“Keeping it simple and learning about aspects”
© www.nodoor.com
“Trying to understand astrological symbols is like learning how to
read a map written in a whole new language, except once you do
you’ll have a map to guide you for the rest of your life.” DR
PLANETS, SIGNS and HOUSES combined, and keeping it simple!
Even though planets, signs and house are different they share things in
common too, and this resonance is the key to understanding the astrological
alphabet, or alphabet of the zodiac.  The following list identifies the core key
words for these planet, sign and house associations.  Use these key words to
stimulate both your logic and your imagination, for astrology is a symbolic
alphabet that is both a logical system and a creative template for your mind.
Once you become better at making these associations between planet, sign,
and house you’ll start to slowly recognize the differences between them.
However, for now you can build your own vocabulary of key words and
phrases that express the commonality of these planet, sign and house
combinations.  Of course please use your BIAP list of key words as well as
the supplemental list of key words they we have provided those of you that
did not participate in the basics program.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
The Simplified Astrological Alphabet
Aries
Mars
1st House:  assertive
action oriented, self-reliant, impatient
Taurus
Venus
2nd House: ownership, self-worth
comfort, material values, money, pleasure, self-sufficiency
Gemini
Mercury
3rd House: clever, communication
messenger, instructor, multi-tasker
Cancer
Moon  4th House: security, home
moods, emotions, family, sentiment, nurturing
Leo
Sun
5th House: dramatic, take charge
leadership, colorful, actor, special, personal, stand out
Virgo
Mercury
6th House: organizing
selective, perfectionist, analytical, logical, prioritizing
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
The Simplified Astrological Alphabet Continued…
Libra
Venus
7th House: accommodating
cooperative, kind, social, building relationships
Scorpio
Pluto
8th House:passion, trust
intensity, intimacy, power, control, survivor, resources
Sagittarius
Jupiter
9th House: freedom, travel
search for wisdom, optimistic, philosophical, enthusiastic
Capricorn
Saturn
10th House: ambitious
serious, disciplined, planning, responsible, duty, work
Aquarius
Uranus
11th House:  original
inventive, contribution, maverick, humanitarian
Pisces
Neptune
12th House:sensitive, psychic
imaginative, spiritual, inspired, compassionate
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
Did you know that you already use aspects when you talk about the signs?
Everything in our solar system is constantly in motion.  The most important motions are
the orbits of planets around our Sun.  This orbit of our Sun represents a “cycle.”Our
Earth’s complete orbit around the Sun equals one year or one yearly cycle.  Wedivide this
yearly cycle into 12 months, and in astrology we divide this yearly cycle into 12 “signs.”
These 12 signs are the calendar of the zodiac and mark a division of our yearly cycle into
12 signs of 30 degrees each.  12 signs of 30 degrees each = 360 total degrees
Instead of using “days” astrologers measure time by “degrees,” 365.25 days (1 yearly
cycle) = 360 degrees.
These quarter cycles mark our seasons of spring, summer, fall and winter.
The blue arrow on the left points to the
detail of the degrees, in this case you are
looking at a section of the sign Aquarius
pointing to  7 degrees and 36 minutes to
simply show you the sub-division of the 12
signs into 360 degrees.
Here we see the 12 sign division of our
Earth’s yearly orbit around the Sun.
Notice how the 4 cardinal signs divide
this yearly cycle into quarter cycles.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
Yes!  It is a matter of degrees!  The above diagram shows the full 360
degrees of the zodiac and the corresponding signs, emphasizing the
cardinal signs that mark the quarter cycles of our 4 seasons.
What other cycle do you see above divided into quarters?
Answer: The MOON!
The familiar 4 “phases” of our Moon!
“Yes, but how do we talk about aspects when we talk about
the signs?  And, what exactly is the definition of an aspect?”
New Moon
Full Moon
First Quarter
Last Quarter
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
“You know Tian is a Taurus and Mei is the opposite
sign of Scorpio!  They say that opposites sometime
attract, but there can be a lot of tension too!”
All of the popular Sun Sign horoscope literature on compatibility is actually
based upon the aspects of the so called “natural zodiac.”  When you hear
someone saying, “Sagittarius and Virgo are not compatible!” this is because
Virgo and Sagittarius are signs that “square” each other, meaning they are at
a “right angle” to each other on the zodiac wheel.
Think about how these signs are positioned relative to each other, and then
scroll back and look at the diagram that marks all 360 degrees.  In the above
image you can see that Cancer and Capricorn are opposite each other but
that both Capricorn and Cancer are “square” or at a right angle, i.e. 90
degrees, with Libra.  In Sun Sign astrology this would designate Libra as
incompatible with Capricorn and Cancer.  Of course, real life compatibility is
far more complex than this!  However, you can see that already you’ve been
talking about aspects when discussing the compatibility between signs!
90 degrees
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 7
Aspect – the angular relationship between two or more planets or points
However, it is important to remember two things:
 Aspects are a matter of degrees – meaning they are measured by degrees
 Aspects are phases or divisions of a cycle – just like the zodiac signs are!
“I want to know which aspects are the
good ones and which aspects are bad!”
There are NO good or bad aspects!  Just like there are no good or bad
signs.  Some aspects are more challenging than others, such as the square
or opposition but the outcome will depend upon how the person
responds to the challenges of their life.  Many people turn squares into
the building blocks of an accomplished life or oppositions into
negotiating skills, and achieve more than those with the so called easy
aspects like trines and sextiles.
The following“aspects” are covered in this course:
0 degrees
conjunction
30 degrees
semi-sextile
60 degrees
sextile
90 degrees
square
120 degrees
trine
150 degrees
quincunx or inconjunct
180 degrees
opposition
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 8
In this chart diagram only the Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune are
included in order to easily show how 4 aspects look on a chart wheel.  In this chart
the Sun is square Uranus, Mercury is conjunct Jupiter, while both Mercury and Jupiter
oppose Neptune.
An aspect has what is called an “orb” of influence.  This orb is determined by the
number of degrees the aspect is from being exact.   In the above diagram Mercury is
2⁰ 14’ apart from Jupiter, well within the orb of 7 degrees recommended for a
conjunction.  The Sun is 2⁰ 18’ from an exact square, also well with orb for a square.
How far from exact is Mercury from Neptune?  What about Jupiter and Neptune?
Recommended Aspect Orbs
Both wider and more narrow
orbs are use by some astrologers.
These orbs are the orbs I
recommend from experience and
practice.  The wider the orb the
less significant it will be in the
person’s life.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 9
The MEANING of the ASPECTS
 Planets are the ACTORS
 Signs are the ROLE the actor plays
 Houses are WHERE things happen, the setting…
 Lunar Nodes are the THEME of the story
ASPECTS ARE THE COMPLICATIONS OF THE STORY!
0 degrees
conjunction – a combination of energy, a more assertive
expression of energy, a beginning – like a New Moon – or Aries
30 degrees
semi-sextile – access, access to resources and money like
Taurus, access to intuition or spiritual support like Pisces
60 degrees
sextile – opportunity, opportunity from everyday
communications like Gemini, opportunities through associates like Aquarius
90 degrees
square – challenge, the challenge of creating a secure home
life like Cancer, the challenge of creating a secure career like Capricorn
120 degrees
trine – the ease of doing things, the ease of making things
happen like Leo, the ease of freedom and openness to adventure like
Sagittarius
150 degrees
quincunx or inconjunct – adjustment, the adjustments of
your daily work like Virgo, or the adjustments of intimacy like Scorpio
180 degrees
opposition – tension, the tension of negotiation, the
challenge of cooperation and building a
relationship like Libra
For now, just learn the key words in “red” and
begin to think about how these aspects might
work in combination with planet, sign and houses.
At first it will seem overwhelming, but in time
you’ll begin to see how important these aspects
are!