www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module 6
Aspects, signs, planets and houses combined
© www.nodoor.com
19⁰                    22⁰
in the 4th HOUSE
How would you communicate this aspect, sign,
planet and house combination?
“Maybe this person’s decisions are based upon
idealistic concepts about their environment,
home and family.  Their imagination and
beliefs are combined regarding attitudes about
the type of home life and private life they
want to experience.  They want their private
life to embody their philosophy of life.”
What kind of adjustments might this person
have to deal with?
[Notice the use of the word “adjustments” refers to the “quincunx” relationship
between Cancer (4th House) and Sagittarius.]
“I think there might be a problem between their urge for independence
and the normal demands of family life.  On one hand family is important
because the Sun is in the 4th House, but on the other hand freedom is
important because of the sign Sagittarius.”
“How might they reconcile this issue?”
“If there is an understanding with family members of how important
their freedom is, then this could be accepted as a normal requirement
for this person.  Home becomes a place where they pause to rest as
they come and go in a restless life that likely
involves travel too.”
“What about Neptune in the 4th House?  Isn’t it
true that someone with Neptune in the 4th
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
House needs “sanctuary,” meaning they prefer their home to be a
retreat away from the world?  What solutions might include this
Neptune influence when combined with this Sun in Sagittarius in the 4th
House?”
“Okay, so when they “are” home their need for privacy
and solitude is important too.  Family members would
need to know this as well, so I suppose this complicates
things, because they are “sensitive” to the conditions of
their environment and may want to meditate or
something like that.  So, maybe they need quiet too;
perhaps they like to listen to music at home, or watch
movies”
“I think this person requires a lot of space!  Their
escapist urges could be pronounced.  In a crowded
household they could feel trapped.  They may also
feel trapped by family pressures.  In addition this
person is comparing their environment and their
family with some ideal or fantasy.  They may be
disillusioned with both their family and
themselves, feeling that they have let themselves
or their family down in some way.  Perhaps they escape into a fantasy
about living on an island somewhere, or have a utopian like vision.
Maybe they have an urge to seek spiritual refuge, to go and visit or even
live in a temple or ashram.  There is likely to be a sensitive issue of some
kind with father.  Either their father was “not” on the scene, or perhaps
overwhelmed by life is some way?  If their father was around, they may
have reacted to their own father’s disillusionment in some way.  Maybe
they idealized their father, but went through some disillusionment
later.”
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
Here is a sample chart for someone born with a Sun Neptune conjunction in
Sagittarius in the 4th House.  This man makes their living as an architect.
This man
grew-up with a step-father that made a living building swimming pools in the Los
Angeles area.  His real father, who was very young father, had completely
disappeared from the scene by the time he was three-years-old.  As a teenager he
would discover that his real father spent time in India living in an ashram and
exploring his spirituality.  His step-father had a bit of a drinking problem but was
very generous with him and would take time to play sports with him and come to
baseball games, etc.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
His real father contacted him again when he was in his teens.  He was very
conflicted about this, not wanting to disappoint his step-father by showing too
much enthusiasm for his biological father.  However, he was very intrigued by the
experiences that his real father shared with him about his time living in India and
the spiritual practices he had learned.   He felt like he had to hide his own interest
in these things from his step-father, who tended to criticize his real father as
irresponsible and a wanderer that had led a “wasted life.” During his teens he
remembered wondering and worrying if he would grow-up to be like his real
father.  However, what he discovered was that his real father had become a more
enlightened person, and a more responsible person too.  When it came time for
him to go to college, his real father revealed that he had been saving money for
years in an account just for his son’s college education.   This proved to be a
profound moment in his life, and he felt inspired to succeed in college and prove
that he could fulfill this promise of a good education.
After obtaining a degree in architecture he went to work for an architectural firm
that designed more energy efficient beach condominiums in Florida and Alabama.
He stayed with this firm for about five years, and then branched off on his own
independently.  However his attempt to succeed on his own was thwarted by the
US 2008 – 2009 recession and he was soon broke and living with his family back in
California.  Then he went on a trip with his real father to India in 2010, and had
some significant spiritual experiences, after which he was inspired by a vision to
design homes or buildings that might evoke spiritual feelings in those that lived or
worked in them.  He is currently working on a large beach house compound for a
wealthy client, but also has hopes to design affordable housing for middle-class
families that might evoke a
sense of “spirituality and
adventure” in the occupants.
He is in no hurry to get married
and start a family, though he
worries that he might never be.
He is currently not
romantically involved with
anyone, though he says he is
open to the possibility.  He is
currently renting a small
apartment with a view of the
ocean in Santa Monica,
California – though he hopes
to buy some land in the not too distant future and build a home of his own design.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
“What would the Sun conjunct Neptune in
Sagittarius be like in other houses?  Think of the
different circumstances, issues, and solutions that
different houses might offer.  What houses are
suggested by these images?”
________
________
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 6
__________
__________
Think about the issues that might exist with each of these
houses.  Do you have any bias or judgment regarding any
of the houses that negatively influences your point of
view?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 7
Use these “glyphs” to create aspect combinations.
Challenge yourself in terms of various house
combinations.
Example:
12th House
9th House
When you are considering the various likely
circumstances and the issues that would be normal for
these aspects, then think about the possible solutions
each house offers.