www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 1
IAC Module 7
Prioritizing Aspects in the Chart Wheel
© www.nodoor.com
“I’m often not sure which aspects are the most important.  I
know that the “closer” the aspect the more emphasis it has,
but I get confused about which aspects to talk about.  There
are so many aspects in a chart I sometimes don’t know
where to start.  Is there a system or method of prioritizing
the aspects, so you know which aspects to spend more time
discussing?”
“Yes, there is a way to prioritize the aspects.  Remember, how
we talked about a chart being like a committee sitting around
a table?  Aspects show the relationships between the people
sitting around the table.  Conjunctions show combined energy,
oppositions “polarities and tensions,” squares are potential
conflicts and challenges on the committee.  Whereas trines
show areas of “resolution, ease, or potential harmony,”
sextiles “opportunities,”semi-sextiles “access” and quincunxes
“adjustments.”  However, different people on the committee have roles that
define their relative importance or significance.  Here is a simple list of priorities
for the aspects in a chart.”
ASPECT PIORITIES - numbered according to priority
1. The ANGLES have the greatest priority in a chart!
ASC & DSC
MC & IC
2.
3.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 2
4.
5.
“Okay, but how does this work? Are you saying that the ASC and
or the Sun and Moon are more important than Pluto or Uranus?  I
don’t understand this?  It seems to me that Pluto or Neptune are
just as important as the Sun and Moon.  I’m going to need to see
some examples of this in order to be grasp these priorities.”
FOR MAJOR ASPECTS TO ANGLES AN ORB OF 5 DEGREES WORKS BEST
SAMPLE CHART
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 3
What is the closest aspect to the ANGLES in the natal chart above?
ASC
What is the next closest aspect to the ANGLES in this chart?
ASC
What is the next closest aspect to the Angles?
ASC
What are the next closest aspects to the Angles, (in order)?
MC
MC
MC
MC
MC
Because of the ANGLES, Jupiter, the Lunar Nodes, Saturn, Neptune,
Mars, Venus, Pluto and the Sun, are all highlighted.  However, what
makes these planets important, especially the outer planets, is that
they ASPECT the ANGLES!
What are the next aspects in order of priority?
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 4
What are the next aspects by priority?
Notice how this order of priority gradually eliminates all of the aspects
in the natal chart.
Consider that the ANGLES are the most unique
expression at the moment of birth; thus the angles often
show the most unique features of the individual.  The
Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus and Mars are often called
the “personal” planets and represent the most human
features of a person.  The Sun and Mars correspond to
Dad or male influence, the Moon and Venus to Mom or
female influence, while Mercury is siblings, first cousins
or neighbors.  Hence the personal planets are like one’s immediate family. From
Jupiter to Saturn and on to the outer planets Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto the
planetary energies are powerful but less personal, less human in some ways.
www.nodoor.com  IAC Course by David Railey - 5
Another Chart Example:
Male
M
List the aspects for this chart according to the priority you have just
learned.  Think about the aspects as you list them in terms of what
this means about the individual.  Consider the questions you would
ask this person, and the issues you would expect to be a part of their
experience of life.