Level 3 Lesson 16
Dispositors
Any planet in its own sign is the dispositor of itself and or the “final
dispositor” of any planet whose sign is associated with it.  These sign
associations were established during Classical “Hellenistic” times and
were called “lords” or “rulerships.”
Aries
Mars
Taurus
Venus
Gemini
Mercury
Cancer
Moon
Leo
Sun
Virgo
Mercury
Libra
Venus
Scorpio
Pluto
Sagittarius
Jupiter
Capricorn
Saturn
Aquarius
Uranus
Pisces
Neptune
“A final dispositor holds an important position in a chart, and will be
relied on within the decision-making process of an individual as the
“bottom line.”
Here are some sample final dispositors with explanations:
→
→
Emotional well-being is nurtured by unique friendships,
with a basic underlying urge for fairness and pleasing others.
→
→
Moods and feelings are expressed more humorously or
optimistically and supported by philosophy, travel experiences and education.
ASC
→
→
→
Someone with a sensitive outer personality that
is more deeply concerned about how achieving their dreams depends upon having
or developing resources.  “Will I survive if I follow my dreams?”
→
→
→
Concerns about relationships impacts their urge to
do a good job; and though relationships are like family, the needs of family and
home and for domestic security are their primary motivation.
Many charts do not have a “final dispositor.”
Mercury in Sagittarius seeks knowledge and wisdom, but this knowledge must –
according to Jupiter in Capricorn - serve a purpose and fit with a practical
philosophy or even a business goal.  With Saturn in Gemini there is concern that
the information be correct and handled in a cautious careful manner.  Yet this
caution then gives way to the enthusiasm of Sagittarius for new knowledge and
seeking greater truths and wisdom, and so on….
Suppose Mercury in Sagittarius was opposite Saturn in Gemini?
Now this dispositor chain shows an underlying relationship between Mercury and
Saturn.  Thus there is internal tension between the urge to read and study and
pursue the adventures of the mind  and a concern about what would be the best
or the more responsible use of time.  This person is serious about learning, they
want the most credible information.
They are careful in their study and serious about tests, with more
discipline than is typical for a Mercury in Sagittarius, and more of a
need to be taken seriously by others as a credible source of
information. (Remember, an opposition is about relationships!)
If this person was a teacher or instructor they would be very careful in their
preparation of lesson material and in the systematic teaching of their subject.  In a
consulting role this individual would be very concerned about imparting correct
information, and would work hard to be prepared.  They want to be taken
seriously by their client and prove themselves as a responsible individual in the
handling of important information.
Many charts may have several dispositor chains without a final dispositor
In this chart can you see that there are a number of dispositor chains?
For example, the Sun is disposited by Venus, which is disposited by Pluto which is
again disposited by the Sun – and the chain begins again.  Mars is disposited by
Saturn, disposited by Pluto, disposited by the Sun, disposited by Venus,
disposited by Pluto and back to the Sun again!
However, in the above chart the Moon is disposited by Jupiter which is then
again disposited by the Moon!  This is called MUTUAL RECEPTION, and is a
special relationship formed when two planets are in each other’s sign.  The
meaning of mutual reception is that these 2 planets or bodies are in such
sympathy with each other that they can “seem to almost trade places with each
other.”
Thus the Moon can sometimes behave like the Moon in Cancer and Jupiter as if it were in
Sagittarius.  In the above case the man’s mother was a school teacher, who came from a whole
family of “educators and teachers.”  This man also became a professor, teaching anatomy at a
Medical College.  He had a wicked sense of humor and was much loved and feared by his
students, having a serious side – Mercury conjunct Saturn – along with his Sagittarius humor.
DR