Level Three Lesson 14
House Rulers and Chart Interpretation
House Rulers of the Houses: Overview
The sign on a house cusp reveals the area of life experience in which the
principles and associations of that sign can be learned. These principles manifest
in more than one area of life, since the ruler, or associate planet of that sign, is
most likely to be in another house.
For example, with Virgo on the IC (H4) and Mercury in Aries in H11, activities such as watching
sports games (Mercury in Aries) with buddies (H11) at home (H4) would be one example of this
connection.  If Taurus was on the MC (H10) and Venus was in Aquarius in H7 one’s partner
could play a significant role in career and public life, be it a close friend and business partner or
even marriage partner.
Houses in the birth chart are linked together in interesting and meaningful ways. The planetary
ruler, or associate planet of a house's sign connects the house it rules to the house in which it is
placed. Keep in mind that there are many different interpretations, or possible manifestations,
of house rulers in houses.
The associate planet of a house is important in revealing how we might act-out or experience
the associations of that house   Likewise, the overall condition of an associate planet must be
considered,  conditions which includes the sign, house and aspects.
So, the associate planet or ruler of a house is kind of like the landlord of the
house.  But what about the planets actually living in the house.   What has
priority?  This is very confusing to me.  What actually shows the way the house is
likely to function for the person?  I’m not even sure what questions to ask the
person?  I don’t even know where to start?
One of the things to realize is that you can start anywhere.  Just pick something
that you feel you might have some understanding of and begin to discuss this
with the person.  For example, in the following partial chart sample you could
start a meaningful conversation just by asking: “Do you feel you struggle with
mixed feelings when it comes to recognition?  Do you need time alone to be
creative and contemplative, but also crave some recognition and attention?”
House Rulers and Chart Interpretation
In the above woman’s chart Scorpio is Rising, with Mars and Uranus conjunct in H1 square
Venus in Leo in H10, along with the Sun in Libra in H12 (not conjunct Pluto).  Consider the
possible meanings and expressions of these combinations, especially in regards to their house
rulership.
 Sun 8 degrees Libra in H12 associated with MC
 Pluto 21 degrees Libra in H12 associated with ASC
 Venus 25 degrees Leo in H10 associated with DSC and H12
 Mars 22 degrees Scorpio in H1 associated with H6
 Uranus 24 degrees Scorpio in H1 associated with H4
In the previous 2 chart samples, look at the houses and house rulers.
The top chart is that of the famous American photographer Ansel Adams, and the
second is that of an anonymous 25-year-old Chinese woman.
Consider the issues that are represented in these very different charts.
Write a short description of each house and its chart ruler.
Make note of what comes easily to you and which houses you struggle with.
Write your questions down and send them to your teaching assistant.
In Level 3 Lesson 15 we will combine all of the questions we receive and discuss
the main concerns that you and your fellow students have about these charts.