Level Four Lesson 5
Chart Synthesis and Relationships
© www.nodoor.com
Synastry means chart comparison using two natal charts.
The natal chart of one person is put in the center of the chart wheel,
while the natal chart of the other person is put around it in the
outer wheel.  Then this is reversed, with the chart of the person that
was in the outer wheel now placed as the center chart of the wheel
with the other person chart around it in the outer wheel.
In this way a more complete picture of compatibility issues can be
revealed.  The bi-wheel chart is used to make a comparison
Synastry Chart:  Wife in the inner wheel; husband in the outer wheel
What does this Synastry chart immediately reveal to you?  What do
you learn from this comparison that you did not realize?  Consider
the important role that houses play in Synastry Charts.  Look at the
obvious connections the husband has with his wife.  Make a list of
these connections.
Synastry Chart:  Husband in the inner wheel; wife in the outer wheel
Now, consider what new things you learn when the charts are
reversed and the husband’s chart is in the inner wheel.  Notice
where her planets fall in his chart.  What positive attributes are
suggested?  What about challenges?  How does he see his wife?
Make a list for both charts to help you organize your thinking and
analysis, and to prepare you for questions you may want to ask he or
she about their relationship experience with each other.
Her planets in
Husband’s Houses
His planets in
Wife’s Houses
HOUSE 1
Pluto conjunct ASC
Saturn, Mars
Moon conjunct ASC
Part of Fortune
HOUSE 2
South Node, Uranus
HOUSE 3
MC conjunct 3H cusp
Neptune and Jupiter
HOUSE 4
HOUSE 5
ASC conjunct Moon
MC
Venus, but conjunct H6 cusp
HOUSE 6
Mercury, conjunct DSC
North Node conjunct H6
cusp
HOUSE 7
Venus, Sun
Jupiter conjunct DSC
Sun, Saturn, Pluto, Mercury
HOUSE 8
North Node
ASC conjunct H8 cusp
Mars, Uranus
HOUSE 9
Part of Fortune
Neptune
HOUSE 10
HOUSE 11
Moon
HOUSE 12
South Node conjunct H12
cusp
This list can help you to see the houses that are emphasized by the
partner’s planets.  Likewise you can quickly see what they share in
common by house position, and the ways in which they are
different.  What do you notice?
It’s also helpful to make a list of close major aspects between them,
especially conjunctions, squares and oppositions.
Sample List:  (You can also express these in the opposite way.)
Her ASC is conjunct his Moon. (or His Moon is conjunct her ASC)
Her ASC is opposite his Jupiter.
Her ASC is square his Neptune.
Her MC is conjunct his H3 cusp
Her MC is square his Moon and his Jupiter
Her Sun is opposite his Mars and Uranus.
Her Sun is square his North & South Nodes and his Venus.
Her Moon makes “no” aspects with his chart.
Her Mercury is conjunct his Part of Fortune.
Her Mercury is opposite his Mercury
Her Venus makes “no” aspects with his chart.
Her Mars is conjunct his Uranus.
Her Mars is conjunct his Mars.
Her Mars is square his North and South Node
Her Mars is square his Venus
Her Jupiter makes “no” aspects with his chart.
Her Saturn conjuncts is Mars
Her Saturn squares his Venus
Her Uranus makes “no” aspects with his chart.
Her Neptune exactly trines his DSC.
Her Pluto closely conjuncts his ASC.
It is also very important to consider how his story interacts with
her story.  How does the Synastry chart shed light on the ways in
which their formative years connect or disconnect?
I keep thinking about how her ASC conjuncts his Moon.  I wonder
how this colors his perception of her?  He has a Moon, Jupiter,
Neptune T-square too!  Does he project all of his mother’s stuff
onto her?  Does he really see her clearly for who she is?
These are very good questions.  Whenever “you” have questions
like this you should write them down and think about how to
weave such questions into the conversation.
That’s right.  Always be thinking about the conversation and what
you hope to find out.  For example, his ASC is conjunct her Pluto.
How do you think this impacts his perception of her?  How does
this impact her behavior with him and or her reaction to him?
I see.  You’re suggesting that he might see her as more Pluto in
some ways.  Of course this could also be a sexual attraction too,
couldn’t it?
Yes, it could be a powerful sexual attraction.  However, he
experiences her Pluto very strongly, and we know how important
Pluto is in her chart!  So think about what this might involve.
It could involve playing-out some major trust issues that she has!
Perhaps she tests him because she wants a closer more intimate
relationship but he feels like she’s trying to control him or
manipulate him.  I like looking at these Synastry Charts!