Level Four Lesson 4
A Holistic Approach to Relationships Part 2
Natal Chart Outline for Relationship Questions and Discussion
I. Parental/Family Influences
A. Mother or Mother figure/s
1. Moon – What does the Moon by sign, house and aspect suggest about
their mother’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
2. Moon – What does the Moon by sign, house and aspect suggest about
their “relationship” with her mother?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
3. Venus – What else does Venus by sign, house and aspect suggest about
their mother’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
4. Venus – What else does Venus by sign, house and aspect suggest about
their relationship with her mother?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
(I. Parental/Family Influences Continued)
B. Father or Father figure/s
1. Sun – What does the Sun by sign, house and aspect suggest about their
father’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
2. Sun – What does the Sun by sign, house and aspect suggest about their
“relationship” with her father?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
3. Mars – What else does Mars by sign, house and aspect suggest about
their father’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
4. Mars – What else does Mars by sign, house and aspect suggest about
their relationship with her father?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
C.  Parental relationship example
1.  List any aspects that connect the Moon or Venus with the Sun
or Mars.
a.  What do these aspects suggest?
2.  Are there any house/sign connections between the Moon or
Venus with the Sun or Mars?
(Example: Moon H8, Scorpio Mars, or Sun H12, Pisces Venus)
a.  What might these connects mean?
3.  What other indications do you see in regards to family and early
environment?
a.  Are there any planets are in the H4?
b.  What sign is on the IC?
c.  Where is the ruler of the IC by sign and house?
d.  How is the ruler of the IC aspected?
D.  Questions to ask your client regarding their parents and their parents
relationship life.
1. Based upon your outline so far make a list of questions you would like to
ask your client about their relationship with their parents and the kind of
relationship examples their parents (or grandparents) set for them
growing-up.
II.  Additional Natal Chart Relationship Indicators
A.  What sign is on the Descendant? (DSC)
1. What does this imply?
B.  Where is the ruler of the Descendant?
1.  What sign is the ruler in and what does this imply?
2.  What house is the ruler in and what does this imply?
3.  How is the DSC ruler aspected and what does this imply?
C.  List any planets in H7
1.  How are these planets aspected and what does this imply?
D.  What sign is on the H8 Cusp?
1. What does this imply?
E.  Where is the ruler of H8?
1.  What sign is the ruler in and what does this imply?
2.  What house is the ruler in and what does this imply?
3.  How is the H8 ruler aspected and what does this imply?
F.  List any planets in H8
1.  How are these planets aspected and what does this imply?
III.  Making a Connection with the themes of the Lunar Nodes
A.  Connect what you’ve studied with the Lunar Nodes
1.  Are the Lunar Nodes connected by house or sign with the Moon, Venus,
Sun or Mars?
(Example: N. Node H9, Sagittarius Sun, or S. Node H3,
Venus in Gemini)  If there are connections what does this imply?
2.  Are the Lunar Nodes aspected by the Moon, Venus, Sun or  Mars?  If so,
what does this imply?
3.  In what other ways might the Lunar Nodes be connected with their
parents or childhood?
(Example: S. Node in Pisces, Sun conjunct Neptune, Moon in H12, or N.
Node in Scorpio, Mars in H8)
IV.  Final Preparations for discussion of relationship life with client.
A.  Make a final list of questions to ask your client?
B.   Review your notes
Apply this natal chart outline for Relationship Questions and Discussion to the
husband’s chart.  Answer every questions in the outline.  Practice this process.
Eventually you will begin to think this way automatically.  When you review you
notes at the end you’re now ready to have a conversation with or about this
person.
Husband’s Chart
Wife’s Chart