Level Four Lesson 3
A Holistic Approach to Relationships
© www.nodoor.com
When attempting to talk with someone or with a couple about a
relationship it is essential to consider each person’s natal chart
independently first.
Yes, until you have a better grasp of the relationship story of each
person, making a comparison or “Synastry” can be very confusing
and overly complicate your conversation.
Remember to keep comparing the different parts of a natal chart
back to the “whole chart.”  A person’s relationship life has to be
considered within the context of their fulfillment and security.
What do you think you’d find in this young woman’s natal chart
that would correspond to her comments?  What issues in her
family life growing-up might have led to her view of marriage?
How might confronting these issues make a difference?
All good questions.   However, keep in mind the goal here is
not to help her get married.  Instead you simply hope she will
become more aware of the feelings that perpetuate her beliefs.
Once she faces her feelings she can begin to liberate herself
from the past and make more aware decisions.
You know Jie and I have been dating for 2-years
now, and we’ve never been happier.  So why should
we spoil it by getting married?  Look what happens
to couples when they get married.  They grow apart;
they lose their joy – they fight and start to hate each
other.
In what way does facing her feelings really impact her?  Do you
mean she might not be aware of feelings she’s holding on to?
I’m not sure I understand?  And what does “liberate herself
from the past” really mean?
Awareness of emotions or feelings is the first step.  Such
feelings naturally emerge when someone is discussing their
past, be it a previous unhappy relationship or especially
incidents from their childhood.
Awareness of emotions allows the person to become more
aware of how these emotions influence their perception of
reality and even how such feelings even create their reality.
Awareness is the first step towards personal liberation.
Then the next step is “acceptance.”  Such acceptance requires a
non-judgmental acknowledgement on a deeper level that what
one has become aware of is “really true.”  Acceptance is not
resignation.  There is no need for guilt, nor any sense of
wrongdoing.  Acceptance means “it is what it is.”
Yes.  The newly aware person can no longer go about their life
blindly.  Awareness followed by acceptance changes their
perception of reality.  Now the person begins to see they have
options, that they no longer “have-to” behave the same way.
Personal Growth Process
 Awareness
 Acceptance
 Change
Okay, thank you.  I’ve heard you talk about this before, but your
explanation makes this process more clear to me.  However,
how does this apply to relationships?  Can you give me an
example of how this might work in talking with someone about
their relationship life?
Sure.  Our lesson this evening involves the chart of the Taurus
woman we were looking at last week.  We will study her chart
holistically in terms of relationship patterns and issues.  Then
we will do the same thing with her husband’s chart.
What might be an emotionally charged issue for her from her childhood?
You could begin a conversation with her about her relationship
with her father.  Perhaps she has learned to control her anger,
but she doesn’t realize how much anger she’s buried until she
recalls an incident from her childhood.
The emotions that surface as she recalls this childhood
incident could surprise her.  As she faces her anger, she might
cry – feeling the hurt her anger was protecting her from.
Slowly she makes the connection between these feelings and
her behavior with her husband.
Yes, clearly her Sun-Mars opposition prompts us to discuss
this.  Such a discussion could help her to realize that she has
options in terms of how she interacts with her husband.
However, I think we need to slow down and outline how to
approach a natal chart in terms of relationships.
Natal Chart Outline for Relationship Questions and Discussion
I. Parental/Family Influences
A. Mother or Mother figure/s
1. Moon – What does the Moon by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their mother’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
2. Moon – What does the Moon by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their “relationship” with her mother?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
3. Venus – What else does Venus by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their mother’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
4. Venus – What else does Venus by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their relationship with her mother?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
(I. Parental/Family Influences Continued)
B. Father or Father figure/s
1. Sun – What does the Sun by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their father’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
2. Sun – What does the Sun by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their “relationship” with her father?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
3. Mars – What else does Mars by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their father’s life and behavior?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
4. Mars – What else does Mars by sign, house and aspect
suggest about their relationship with her father?
a. potentially positive indicators
b. potentially negative indicators
C.  Parental relationship example
1.  List any aspects that connect the Moon or Venus with the Sun
or Mars.
a.  What do these aspects suggest?
2.  Are there any house/sign connections between the Moon or
Venus with the Sun or Mars?
(Example: Moon H8, Scorpio Mars, or Sun H12, Pisces Venus)
a.  What might these connects mean?
3.  What other indications do you see in regards to family and
early environment?
a.  Are there any planets are in the H4?
b.  What sign is on the IC?
c.  Where is the ruler of the IC by sign and house?
d.  How is the ruler of the IC aspected?
D.  Questions to ask your client regarding their parents and their
parents relationship life.
1. Based upon your outline so far make a list of questions you
would like to ask your client about their relationship with their
parents and the kind of relationship examples their parents (or
grandparents) set for them growing-up.
II.  Additional Natal Chart Relationship Indicators
A.  What sign is on the Descendant? (DSC)
1. What does this imply?
B.  Where is the ruler of the Descendant?
1.  What sign is the ruler in and what does this imply?
2.  What house is the ruler in and what does this imply?
3.  How is the DSC ruler aspected and what does this imply?
C.  List any planets in H7
1.  How are these planets aspected and what does this imply?
D.  What sign is on the H8 Cusp?
1. What does this imply?
E.  Where is the ruler of H8?
1.  What sign is the ruler in and what does this imply?
2.  What house is the ruler in and what does this imply?
3.  How is the H8 ruler aspected and what does this imply?
F.  List any planets in H8
1.  How are these planets aspected and what does this imply?
III.  Making a Connection with the themes of the Lunar Nodes
A.  Connect what you’ve studied with the Lunar Nodes
1.  Are the Lunar Nodes connected by house or sign with the
Moon, Venus, Sun or Mars?
(Example: N. Node H9, Sagittarius Sun, or S. Node H3,
Venus in Gemini)  If there are connections what does this
imply?
2.  Are the Lunar Nodes aspected by the Moon, Venus, Sun or
Mars?  If so, what does this imply?
3.  In what other ways might the Lunar Nodes be connected with
their parents or childhood?
(Example: S. Node in Pisces, Sun conjunct Neptune, Moon in
H12, or N. Node in Scorpio, Mars in H8)
IV.  Final Preparations for discussion of relationship life with client.
A.  Make a final list of questions to ask your client?
B.   Review your notes
Follow the previous outline and use this chart to practice:
Wife’s Chart
Follow the previous outline and use this chart to practice:
Husband’s Chart