Level Three Lesson 12
“Late Term Review” of Level Three
Let’s review what we’ve learned in Level Three so far?
Everyone has a life story.
We are the main character of our story.
The more aware we are about ourselves
and our lives the more choices we have
about how we live our story.
Your astrological chart is like an outline
of your story or script, but no one can
tell exactly how you’ll play it!
A Natal Chart is composed of  5 categories
 Planets
 Signs
 Houses
 Aspects
 Lunar Nodes
How is a chart like a script of a story?
PLANETS are the ACTORS
1.
2.
SIGNS are the ROLE they play
3.
HOUSES are the SETTING
4.                     ASPECTS are the COMPLICATIONS
5.
The LUNAR NODES are the THEME
Remember this and your interpretation will
open the chart up just like a story book!
Let’s use Mars to remind us of how planet
sign, house and aspects are combined.
Mars, the archetype warrior, is
like the “action hero” Arnold
Schwarzenegger for example.
When he played the role of a kindergarten teacher in
the film Kindergarten Cop,” this big strong action
hero had to act nurturing and parental.  So his role
would fit the sign Cancer
the most.
Combined this becomes
Elementary School is 3rd House, so now we have
3rd House
These shots are from the 1990 blockbuster hit “Kindergarten Cop”
© Universal Pictures
For fun we can begin to build a natal chart
from this simple role playing with Mars!
Mars in Cancer in the third house
would put Taurus on the ASC.
Using the coordinates of
Hollywood California for the
houses we can see how the 12 signs
are distributed throughout the chart
wheel.
However, our “kindergarten
teacher” is an undercover cop
hoping to gain evidence to convict a
criminal from the x-wife of the
criminal who hides out in this
small town with her son in
kindergarten.
Let’s add some aspects now that might symbolize these complications!
Mars is now opposite Pluto in the
9th house.  Our action hero has
power, the righteous power of the
Pluto in the 9th house, used in
“secret” with the intention of
bringing a criminal to justice.  This
is an unusual undercover role for
our action hero, who must disguise
the risky nature of his role, as he
pretends to play someone that is a
radical departure from his normal
self.  Uranus in Aries in the 12th
house square Mars and Pluto fits
this story quite well.
Can you see how this T-Square with Mars in Cancer opposite Pluto and
square Uranus was built from the character role Arnold plays?
All sign, planet, house and aspect combinations represent real life
potentials that can be played out by the person born with them.
Look at the actual natal chart of Arnold Schwarzenegger and notice
the similarities between the person and the role he played.
(Mercury on the ASC is interesting, he speaks 7 languages, but all with an Austrian
accent that stays with this Austrian homeboy, who made his accent part of his persona.)
Yes, Arnold is a Leo with the Moon in Capricorn, a combination that fits an
ambitious actor and former two term Governor of California.  However,
notice that he has Cancer Rising with Mercury on the ASC.  The ASC is a
Mars point in every chart, so he can readily “act” like a nurturing person,
and a teacher or instructor, i.e. a kindergarten teacher, with Mercury in
Cancer on his ASC.  Let’s match some of the symbolism in Arnolds natal
chart with the partial chart we created for the “role” of kindergarten cop.
Here is a list showing the “interchangeable” symbolic associations
between Arnold the person and our very simple sign, planet, aspect
combination.  Though these association resonate in a similar way
they are not exactly the same.
-  ASC
3rd house -
(both have strong Mars Uranus aspects)
(both have Uranus in the 12th house)
(Instead of Pluto aspecting Mars it aspects the Sun)
The point of this comparison is to help you become more
creative with how you use your planet, sign, house and aspect
combinations.
The purpose of this entire exercise is to remind you of how
astrology utilizes a symbolic alphabet of associations that are
connected by similarities no matter how uniquely positioned.
In fact, from the most simple view everything in a chart is
simply a variation of the 12 zodiac signs.
Okay, so explain to me how the Sun in Pisces is different than
the Sun conjunct Neptune or the Sun in the 12th house?
All 3 represent a more sensitive and complex ego structure,
motivated by inspiration yet disillusioned when their life is
not what they imagined it to be.  Their differences are
represented by what makes them different, i.e. their SIGN.
What do you mean?
You can’t have a Sun Neptune conjunction that is not in a
sign!  A Sun Neptune conjunction in Sagittarius is different
than the Sun in Pisces.  The urge for freedom and truth heats-
up this watery combination and stimulates adventurousness
and enthusiasm not found in Pisces.
A 12th house Sun is also similar to a Pisces Sun, but the
difference will also be represented by the sign!
Right, a Scorpio Sun in the 12th house may be “double water”
but the intensity, passion and obsessive nature of Scorpio is
not a Pisces trait, nor are “trust issues” a Pisces issue.
Okay, so a Pisces Sun in the 8th house might have trust issues,
but this is because the Sun is in the 8th house.  But how does a
H12 Scorpio Sun differ from a H8 Pisces Sun?
H8 involves intimacy issues with a partner, or in close
relationships.  H12 does not;  a H12 Scorpio Sun may have
trust issues with the whole world, with life itself – and they
may fluctuate from passionate unconditional love of
humanity to hatred of everyone.
Here are two famous people born with a
Scorpio Sun in the 12th house.
Jodie Foster  - film star and director
Biography of Jodie Foster
Alicia Christian Foster, born November 19, 1962 at 8:14 a.m. in Los
Angeles, California, is an American actress, film director, and
producer.  Foster began acting in commercials at the age of three.
Here are samples of her most famous roles in film.
 Played  a child prostitute in “Taxi Driver”- nomination for
Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress 1976.
 Played a rape victim in “The Accused” - Academy Award for Best
Actress in 1989,
 Played an FBI trainee, tracking a mass serial killer in “The Silence
of the Lambs” as Clarice Starling, her second Academy Award for
Best Actress 1991.
 Played a backwoods hermit with speech and mental disabilities in
“Nell.” She receiving her third Best Actress Academy Award
nomination in 1994.
 Represents the first human to interact with an alien as part of a
global mission in “Contact” in 1997.
  Hides in an well defended closet in her  mansion to escape home
invaders in “Panic Room” in 2002.
 Plays a woman struggling to recover from a brutal attack by
setting out on a mission for revenge in “The Brave One” in 2007.
Notes: In real life Jodie Foster was stalked for years by an obsessed deranged fan
named John Hinckley who shot and critically wounded US President Ronald Reagan
in 1981.  Hinckley hoped assassinating the President would win Foster’s respect and
love.  He was judged insane and will spend his life in a mental institution.
Soeur Emmanuelle – famous nun
Biography of Soeur Emmanuelle
Sœur Emmanuelle (born Madeleine Cinquin, November 16, 8:15
1908 a.m. in Brussels, Belgium) is a Belgian-born French nun. She
died on October 20, 2008 in Callian. The daughter of a family of
lingerie manufacturers. At the age of six she saw her father drown. She was
educated at the Sorbonne, earning a degree in philosophy. In 1929 she took her
religious vows and became a nun. She worked in Notre-Dame de Sion high
school in Istanbul in 1930s. In 1971 she witnessed the impoverished conditions
of the trash collectors in Cairo, Egypt, and decided to live among them. She
remained there until 1993, when she returned to France. It was upon her
return that she gained the status of a media sensation in France, as she was
well received by audiences and talk-show hosts. In addition to her charity
work, she is known for her unorthodox religious views, including approval of
the use of contraception and favoring the idea of allowing priests to marry.
She has been voted one of the most popular people in France, and has been
compared to Mother Teresa. (Although she views the comparisons with Mother
Theresa as "ridiculous"). In 2003, French television broadcast: “ Les Soeur
Emmanuelle: An exceptional woman.”  Amis de Soeur Emmanuelle (The
Friends of Sister Emmanuelle) is a charitable organization based in Brussels.
I italicized the key words for 12th house and
Scorpio in her biography above; trash collectors is
an obvious Scorpio association.
In these two examples consider how they chose to
express their Scorpio Suns in H12!
Notes: Emmanuelle, “I wanted to bear witness that unconditional love is more powerful
than death.”  In her autobiography “Confessions of a Nun” she confronts the reader with
her insatiable urges and sexual appetite. Writing frankly of her lifelong feelings of lust,
of masturbating as a girl, of falling in love and having to renounce physical love for the
love of God.   She wrote: “when desire assaulted me, only some outside presence had the
power to stop me; otherwise I was powerless against the avidity of pleasure.”
Remember, “aspect patterns” show special
connections between planets that operate
together as a unit.  Here is an aspect review.
0 degrees
conjunction – a combination that produces more force
30 degrees
semi-sextile – access to things and to inspiration
60 degrees
sextile – opportunity for connections and participation
90 degrees
square – the effort to create security and achievements
120 degrees
trine -  ease in taking timely action to obtain results
150 degrees
quincunx – adjustments in living and creating trust
180 degrees
opposition - tension, relationship tension, agreements
The T-square aspect pattern is formed when the Sun, Moon or planets in
opposition also form a square with another point (or points). The pattern
resembles the letter T when viewed in the chart.
A Grand Trine a pattern formed by three trines, whose planet pairs connect
together three planets of a chart.
A Grand Cross is formed by a pattern consisting of four squares and 2
oppositions.  A Grand Square is “technically’ formed by a pattern consisting of
four squares “ with “at least one of the oppositions” out of orb.
A Yod is formed with a planet in quincunx to two other planets that are sextile to
one another.
A Kite is a configuration of aspects formed when the Sun, Moon or planets of a
chart form a Grand Trine, and two of them sextile a fourth planet which also
opposes one of the planets in the grand trine.
A Star of David or Grand Sextile  is configuration of aspects formed when two
Grand Trines are present in a horoscope, connected with each other by sextiles. In
the ideal case they form a hexagon
The Mystic Rectangle or Rectangle is comprised of two opposition aspects,
connected with two trine and two sextile aspects. Some consider the trines and
sextile aspects release points for the tension of the oppositions.
Astrologers Creed,  Please Repeat this:
There are no good or bad signs.
There are no good or bad planets.
There are no good or bad houses.
There are no good or bad aspects.
There are no good or bad birth charts!
Every sign has positive and negative traits.
Every planet his positive and negative traits.
Every house has positive and negative associations.
Every aspect has positive and negative attributes.
Every chart contains a potential for both constructive
and destructive behavior and outcomes.
No one can predict exactly how a birth chart will be
actually lived by the person.
A chart provides clues, but the truth is in the person.
A chart stimulates questions.  The answers are in the
person.
A chart is the map, the person and their life is the
territory.
A chart used responsibly provides a meaningful
measurement for life.