Level Three Lesson 11
More Synthesis of planet, sign, house and aspects…
What did we learn in lesson 10, when we
compared Brian Wilson’s natal chart with Paul
McCartney’s natal chart?
 Both had similar compelling motivations to express music
as suggested by their Sun-Neptune square more
emphasized because of their South Node in Pisces.
 The house differences made a real difference in terms of
family dynamics and life experience.
 The different sign and house positions of the Moon
showed different mother and family dynamics.
 Aspects to the angles showed what was important in their
lives.
 Hemispheric oppositions represent opposite ways of being
in the world.
You know, I wish we would slow down some.  I’m
really confused by how to make these associations
in a chart.  I’m still trying to figure out sign, house
and aspect combinations and what they mean!
Sure, no problem.  Let’s take each one of these
points from last week’s lesson and break them down
in terms of planet, sign, house, and aspect.
 Both had similar compelling motivations to express music as
suggested by their Sun-Neptune square and South Node in Pisces.
Paul McCartney
Sun in Gemini – urge to communicate
Sun in Gemini H10 – urge to communicate
in public or with the public
H10 Sun in Gemini square H1 Neptune –
urge to communicate sensitive self in
public or with the public
“I think people who create and
write, it actually does flow-just
flows from into their head, into
their hand, and they write it down.
It's simple.”
Paul McCartney
“Sometimes I get in a real talkative mood but not very often.”  Brian Wilson
Brian Wilson
Sun in Gemini – urge to
communicate
H2 Sun in Gemini – urge to
be rewarded for
communication
H2 Sun in Gemini square H5
Neptune – urge to be rewarded for imaginative creative communication
From the sample charts, there are questions about Houses:
What’s the difference between Neptune in the H1 versus H5?  I’m
looking at the 2 charts from Lesson 10, Paul and Brian.
Neptune in H1, and with Neptune conjunct the ASC, means one’s
personality and one’s body is sensitive.  For example, Paul is allergic
to dust and has asthma; Brian is not.  Both Paul and Brian were
“sensitive” Gemini’s, and Neptune in either H1 or H5 is conducive to
musical expression.  The first house position might indicate natural
rhythm, while the fifth house is the creative house.
Okay, but why did drugs have a more debilitating impact upon Brian
and not Paul?  They both experimented with drugs, but Brian became
addicted and unable to function for years, but Paul continued to be
productive.  It would seem to me that a H1 Neptune is more prone to
addiction than a H5 Neptune.
The house position of Neptune is not the only factor when it comes
to the risk for addiction.  We have to take into account the fact that
Brian was physically abused by his father and was in a lot of
psychological pain; drugs dulled this pain.
Okay, but I read online that Paul’s mother died when he was fourteen.
Why wouldn’t he have been in emotional pain from this loss?   Why
didn’t he turn to drugs?
Of course Paul had unresolved emotional issues due to the loss of his
mother at fourteen.  However, a pattern had been already set in
Paul’s life by age 14 that was far different than Brian’s first 14 years.
Childhood physical abuse is much more dibilitating than the loss of
of a loved one at age 14.  Brian’s abusive treatment had even left
him 90% deaf in his right ear.
Let’s hear what Paul has to say about this in his own words.
Remember, the “greater truth is in the person” and the chart simply
reflects this truth.
Paul, how did you cope with the loss of your mother at fourteen?  And
what were you like before she died?
I turned to music at 14 when my mom died.  At 11, I had been one of
only four students who passed the 11+ exam, known as "the
scholarship" in Liverpool, and gained a place at Liverpool Institute for
Boys.  As a lad I was a high achiever, my Mom was proud of me.
What was your mom like?  What was your relationship with her like?
She was a strong woman.  As a nurse and a midwife she was the
“breadwinner” of our family.  In shock when she died the first thing I
said was “what are we going to do without her money?”  She was
such a strong influence on me, wanting me to speak the “king’s
English,” to get a good education and make her proud.
Paul, what was your father like, and how did he deal with losing your
Mom?
Dad was a cotton salesman and a pianist in Jim Mac's Jazz Band in
Liverpool.  He just got-by you know. My mother's death broke my dad
up. That was the worst thing for me, hearing my dad cry. I'd never
heard him cry before. It was a terrible blow to the family. You grow
up real quick, because you never expect to hear your parents crying.
You expect to see women crying, or kids in the playground, or even yourself
crying - and you can explain all that. But when it's your dad, then you know
something's really wrong and it shakes your faith in everything…
I was determined not to let it affect me. I carried on. I learnt to put a
shell around me at that age. There was none of this sitting at home
crying.  I put everything into the music.  It came out of me that way,
like in the song Let It Be, “in my hour of darkness she is standing right
in front of me, speaking words of wisdom…”  Mary was my mum’s
name you know?  So, “mother Mary comes to me…”  see?  It’s all there.
David, some of your students want to know if you can see the
potential for Paul to lose his mother in his teens in his natal chart?
In terms of the basic interpretation that my Level 3 students have
learned so far, there is nothing to suggest a potential loss of mother –
even with Venus partially in H8.  However, when you learn Solar Arc
in Level 5 you’d spot a number of trends at age fourteen that would
lead you to question a client about what happened during that time.
Other students want you to explain more about the Sun in the 10th
house versus the 2nd house?  They have some confusion about this.
Both are “earth houses,” and both have a “career” association.  H10
is the more competitive of the two, and we know that Paul was
achievement driven early-on.  Ultimately as a musician he wanted to
attain the success his father never had.  Underneath is an urge to
heal his wounded father through his own success, as indicated by the
Sun Neptune square, with the Sun in his 10th house.  It’s important to
remember that a chart does not indicate how much money someone is going to
make!  Both Paul and Brian wanted to make money.  It took Paul a while to figure
out the music “business,” but once he did he became increasingly successful as a
businessman, making more and more money while Brian faded away for a while.
I read about Brian online, and found it interesting that he initially
took some money his father had only given him for emergencies to
rent equipment to make a song and enter it in a local band contest
on the radio.  His father was upset about this!
Yes, he had deceived his father.  But when they won the contest, his
dad saw his son as a potential “money-maker” and took over
financially. Later his dad would deceive his son by selling the rights to
most of the Beach Boy songs to Columbia records for only $700,000.
Brian was deeply disillusioned by losing ownership of his songs.
Brian’s Sun in the 2nd house square Neptune shows the potential for financial
complications with father.  Brian was tricked and hounded into signing over
financial control to his father, who created a “fake company” to sell Brian’s songs
to Columbia in 1969.  Brian never regained ownership of his early songs, so he
sued Columbia and in 1992 received $10 million USD in an out of court
settlement.
So, who was more interested in money, Brian or Paul?
They were both interested in commercial success.  However, Brian
felt the pressure of making money on his shoulders.  He was the
creative one who wrote the songs.  When he left the tour to write
songs at home, he told his brothers “I will write songs that make
money for us, trust me.”  When their album “Pet Sounds” was only
number 10 on the charts, Brian responded by writing their number 1 hit “Good
Vibrations” which made money and “kept everyone happy for a while.”
So Brian’s self-worth was linked to his making money?
Yes. He had created this sudden wealth for his brothers and family.
Even though he loved being creative and original, the financial
pressure was on him to produce.  His brothers did not have his
writing talent.  After his dad sold him out in 1969, Brian turned more
to drugs and drinking to escape this impossible pressure.
How was Paul different?
Paul was very competitive creatively, and early-on showed an interest
in the business side of things.  After the Beatles split-up Paul began
acquiring copyrights to Beatles songs and other performers too.  He
slowly amassed a net worth today valued at $1.2 billion USD.  Even
back in 1983 he was described as a brilliant businessman.
Your saying that a H10 Sun is like Capricorn, more business-like.  Yet,
Brian had a H2 Sun and Taurus Rising, yet did not make the amount of
money that Paul did.  This is confusing to me?
That’s because you’re still assuming that a 2nd house Sun should make
more money than a 10th house Sun, and you can’t tell this from the
chart!