1 / 8
Level Four Lesson 1
A Holistic Approach to Personality
© www.nodoor.com
In a holistic approach we are interested in understanding and engaging
the whole person, mind, body and soul.
Holism broadly defines personality as both the outer and inner
experience of mind, body and soul, and does not limit personality to
only set specific external traits.  Instead personality is understood as
an evolving self-development that parallels one’s growing awareness
of life.
mental
emotional
mind
body
emotional
physical
soul
spiritual life
2 / 8
But aren’t the characteristics of the 12 signs and the Sun, Moon and
planets defined as specific traits?  What about our list of key words and
phrases, don’t these words describe the behavior we expect to see in
people born with various sign, house, planet and aspect combinations?
Yes, of course, but people are more than simply a list of key words and
phrases.  Consider the challenges you’ve encountered in using these key
words and phrases.  Combining these words can sound awkward and fail
to convey insightful meaning.
Give us an example of this.  I use the key words and phrases a lot, and I
find them to be quite helpful.
Yes, key words and phrases provide you with a vocabulary, but don’t
necessarily provide context .  Let’s choose some words from your key
word lists for the following example and see how this might read when
you attempt to combine these words:
Emotionally assertive and sometimes unwilling to cooperate in
relationships he is in conflict with his own domestic sensitivity.
H7                              H4
What does that mean!??
Exactly!  The key words are correct, but don’t make sense.  So how would
you extract meaning from this combination of symbols?
I would think it through first in terms of what this combination of symbols
might relate to in real life.  Once I consider possible situations I might gain
some insights into a variety of different meanings and issues.
3 / 8
Show me.
I’d think about the houses involved, H7 and H4.  This tells me that
partnership and family life are involved.  With an Aries Sun and Moon in
H7 this person would need a very active partner or partnership, but the
square to Neptune suggests complications – family complications…
You’re revealing a good thought process in terms of synthesis, starting
with the houses to frame your approach.  Synthesis is essential for chart
interpretation, and a valuable asset in a holistic approach.  However,
what does this combination suggest in terms of personality?
I would want to know the ASC, which has to be either Libra or late Virgo.
A Libra ASC would emphasize the H7 theme, and suggest a personality
eager to cooperate but with some sensitivity (Neptune) that takes some
of the edge off of Aries.  But I’d want to compare this to the whole chart.
Your synthesis is excellent, but you just said the most important thing!
What?
I’d want to compare this to the whole chart!
Holism states that even “the parts cannot be understood
without reference to the whole.” Already you’re thinking
holistically!  Holism allows us to grasp the uniqueness of someone’s
4 / 8
personality.  Each personality has a pattern as unique as a fingerprint.
Everyone’s chart is unique too!  Comparing the parts of a birth chart back
to the “whole chart” provides a context of meaning that allows you to
better understand the whole person.  Consider how the aspect
combination we were just discussing compares with the whole chart.
Male
Now I can see how this Sun-Moon-Neptune combination relates to the
rest of the chart.  He has a sensitive personality for an Aries!  Not only is
5 / 8
his Sun and Moon square Neptune but also his ASC.  I wonder how his family
situation contributed to the development of his personality?
Yes, this is a good question – and it again shows a holistic approach.
You’re comparing this combination to the rest of the chart and you’re
considering his personality in terms of development.
Yes, treating personality as developmental allows us to understand what
might have influenced the development of their personality.  Looking at
the whole chart provides us a wider context regarding both nature and
nurture, in that a chart suggests environmental conditions too!
What do you mean?
First off, the Sun, Moon and planets are an environmental measure; from
our “earthly” perspective.  The chart literally represents the larger
environment at birth.  Second, as astrologers we know that the houses in
a chart provide an environmental context, as so do the planets.
Yes.  We see in this chart Neptune in H4 aspecting the Sun, Moon and ASC,
representing both the person’s sensitive nature, and suggesting sensitive
family/environmental influences that might have also influenced the
development of his personality.
To this conversation I would like to add the humanistic view that every
person is born with a potential to experience meaningful fulfillment.
Therefore, personality must also be considered within the larger context
of our overall need for meaningful fulfillment in life.
Sounds to me like you’re referring to the Lunar Nodes.
Of course I am, because the Lunar Nodes provide important clues
regarding our search for meaningful fulfillment.  However, the Lunar
Nodes also have to be compared back to the whole chart, and their
interconnectedness with the chart is clearly a holisitc process.
6 / 8
I want to add something to our previous mention of synthesis in a holistic
approach.   Synthesis does involve “thinking things through” in terms of
“relatedness” but this also involes the use of visualization.
Yes!  We need to imagine ways from the chart that a person’s life might
have shaped the development of their personality.
I remember thinking about this before, and I do use my imagination when
I’m thinking about a chart.  However, I’m a bit confused.  I would like the
points we’re discussing about a holistic approach clarified.
Okay, here are some key points from our discussion about a holistic
approach.
 A holistic approach attempts to understand and engage the whole person.
 Holism broadly defines personality as both the outer and inner experience of
mind, body and soul.
 Personality is understood as an evolving self-development that parallels one’s
growing awareness of life.
 Key words and phrases provide a vocabulary but not context.
 Synthesis is an important part of a holistic approach.
 Synthesis involves both reasoning, i.e. “thinking through” and visualization.
 In a holistic approach the parts cannot be understood without a reference to
the whole.
 The whole chart provides a holistic context for comparing any part of a chart.
 Treating personality as developmental allows us to understand what might
have influenced the development of their personality.
 A chart represents the larger context of environment and provides us a
holistic view regarding both nature and nurture.
 Holism is compatible with the humanistic view that each person is born with
a potential to experience meaningful fulfillment.
 Personality must be considered within the larger context of our overall need
for meaningful fulfillment.
7 / 8
Consider the birth chart of the woman below.  Consider your
approach to her chart holistically.  Imagine the woman in the
photo as your client.  What questions would you want to ask
her?
8 / 8
List the questions you might want to ask her.  Think it through.
Continue to compare the various parts of the chart back to the
whole chart.  What themes emerge?  What are you looking for?