Level Five Lesson 19: Advanced Forecasting Skills
© www.nodoor.com
Forecasting is challenging.  Whatever techniques you use there’s
a fair amount of preparation involved, especially in the beginning.
When I first began to practice astrology I would spend two or
more hours preparing.  I would use my Ephemeris to study the
transits, and calculate the secondary progressions, solar arc, and
solar return charts by hand.  Only occasionally did I do lunar
return charts.
Knowledge Points for Advanced Forecasting
 The Natal Chart is the most important forecasting indicator
 Transits show the connection between the person and the “world transits.”
Though these transits are experienced in an individual way, there is a
synchronistic resonance between someone’s personal development and
worldwide developments.
 Secondary Progressions reveal the “solar system within” as it unfolds, offering
opportunities to experience, express and develop emerging parts of ourselves.
 Solar Arc reveals the “vital issues” and highlights significant areas of potential
experiences and development.
 Solar Return charts highlight some of the important themes of the year from
one birthday to the next.
 When studying your forecast data look for “patterns of similarity” or themes.
For example:  Transiting Pluto square natal MC, while Solar Arc Pluto conjuncts
natal MC, or progress ASC conjunct Neptune, while transiting Neptune
conjuncts natal DSC.
 Don’t get stuck “speculating about events;” this is a waste of time.  Instead,
reflect upon the themes of the natal chart.  Then ask yourself, “In what ways are
these trends connected to the overall development of this person?”  “What
growth potential is possible?”  “What opportunities and challenges are
suggested, and what could this “mean” for the person?”
FEMALE: Born:
Whenever you are preparing for a forecast always review the natal chart.  This will be
automatic when it is a new client, but when your client becomes a regular patron it is easy to
overlook the basics of the natal chart story.  This is a mistake!  You should always remind
yourself “who” this person is, and what their story is about.
For example, in the chart above the North Node is in Scorpio, as is Mars and Neptune
(though Neptune’s position is generational, i.e. 1957 – 1970).  What other Scorpio themes do
you see?  Are there any personal planets in aspect with Pluto?  What about the South Node in
Taurus?  Where is Venus?  How is Venus aspected?
Did you notice right away that Venus was in the 2nd house – the natural house of Taurus?
Did you automatically recognize the connection between the North Node in the 11th house
and the Moon in Aquarius, and spot the opposition with Uranus and the square between
the Moon and Mars – with Mars in the 11th house?
What about the 5th house theme?  The Sun is in Sagittarius in the 12th house.  What themes
are the most pronounced?  What planets are conjunct or in aspect to the angles?  You
should practice thinking this way when you first look at a natal chart and when you review a
natal chart prior to your forecast.  This should be the first step in your forecast preparation.
Transits and Secondary Progressions for March 28, 2013 at 10:00 a.m.
Let’s look at her transits first.  Start with Pluto and work your way in.  Pluto is square with
the MC and IC.  What does this imply? When will Neptune move far enough into Pisces to
square her Sun, and what does this mean? What about Neptune transiting her Part of
Fortune?  What aspects will Uranus make?  Will Uranus conjunct her IC and oppose her MC?
Saturn is still in her 11th house.  When did it last conjunct her North Node, and will it
conjunct it again?  What does this mean?  Was Saturn close enough to her natal Mars for a
conjunction?  What about her natal Mars square Uranus, how might this Saturn transit
affect her?   Will Saturn come back to square her Venus and conjunct her Jupiter.  Will
Saturn move far enough into Scorpio to square her Moon; if so when will this happen?
What about the transiting Lunar Nodes?  Next, look at Jupiter.  Jupiter will finish up in
Gemini and then go into Cancer in late June; what does this mean for her?  What houses will
Jupiter transit?  Notice Jupiter’s station in the autumn of this year at 20 degrees of Cancer;
what does that aspect in her natal chart?  What does this mean?
Next look at her Secondary Progressions staring with the angles; let’s list the aspects within
one degree.  Her Progressed MC and ASC are not aspecting anything over the next year;
however Progressed Mars has just crossed her natal ASC and remains in orb of a conjunction
for the rest of the year.  Progressed Venus is “slowly” retrograding back and making a trine
to her natal MC and opposing her natal Uranus, while squaring her natal Mars at the same
time.  The progressed Sun is quincunx natal and progressed Pluto; meanwhile the
progressed Moon trines Jupiter briefly for another month as it enter her 3rd house.  What other aspects
will the progressed Moon make over the next 12 months as it moves through her 3d house?
Solar Arc for March 28, 2013
Now, repeat the same list for her Solar Arc Directions, starting with the angles.
The Solar Arc MC is not aspecting anything, while the Solar Arc ASC is separating
from a conjunction to the natal Moon that has been in effect already over the last
year and a half.  The Solar Arc Moon is conjunct the natal IC and is separating, but
in effect for another 9 months or so.
Solar Arc Saturn is applying to a close trine with the natal MC and likewise square
natal Mars and opposite natal Uranus. [Think about what transiting Saturn is also
doing!]  Solar Arc Jupiter is applying to a conjunction to the natal ASC which will be
in effect for the next year and 10 months approximately.  Consider what these Solar
Arc trends might suggest, both in terms of issues and possible circumstances.
Notice that there are 2 Lunar aspects of significance with the angles, and that
both aspects are separating.  Could this imply some important family
development?  How would you balance your forecast between the Saturn
influence and the Jupiter influence?  How would you coordinate these Solar Arc
trends with her progressions and transits?  What themes do you see?  How would
you advise this woman if she were your client coming in to see you today?
Chart 1 – Female, Natal Chart
Chart 1 – Female: Transits and Secondary Progressions for August 1, 2011
Chart 1 – Female:  Solar Arc for August 1, 2011
Chart 2 – Step-daughter of Chart 1 Female
Chart 3 – Husband of Chart 1 and Father of Chart 2