Level Four Lesson 2
A Holistic Approach to Interpretation
© www.nodoor.com
How easy was it for you to interpret this Woman’s birth chart thinking holistically?
Did you notice some sign, house and aspect patterns that seemed increasingly
relevant when compared back to her whole chart?  Did you formulate a list of
questions you would want to ask her in a consultation?
Woman’s Natal Chart from Lesson 1
I tried being more aware of this holistic process at first, but then I would become so
interested in the chart I would forget.  Then when I relaxed and just let my mind
wander about the chart that I would suddenly realize I was “in fact” continually
comparing what I found back to the chart and reinforcing the main themes.
Yes, I had a similar experience, but I think my mind requires a more systematic or
logical process.  I’d like to know if there is a more systematic holistic way of
preparing to talk with a person about their chart?
Yes, there is.  Let’s take a look at the key elements of a holistic approach to chart
interpretation, and discover how this prepares you to talk with someone about their
birth chart.
Use the following exercise when preparing to talk with someone about their chart:
I. Becoming familiar with the chart.
A. What do you first notice when you look at the chart?
1. Write this down.
a. What possible meanings occur to you?
B. Close your eyes.  How much of the chart can you still see?
C.  Open your eyes.  How much did you forget?
D.   Look carefully at the chart again.  What do you notice now?
1. Write this down.
a. What possible meanings occur to you?
E.  Close your eyes.  How much of the chart can you see now?
F.  Open your eyes.  How much do you forget?  Did you remember the degrees too?
G.  Look carefully at the chart again.  What do you notice now?
1. Write this down.
a. What possible meanings occur to you?
(Just write down whatever thoughts, images or ideas that occur.)
II. Looking for patterns and finding themes
A.  What obvious patterns do you notice first?
(List those patterns by association in a group.)
Example: (from previous chart)
H8 – 3 planets, Mars, Saturn and Pluto, all 3 planets in Scorpio.
Pluto opposite Mercury, sextile the Moon, sextile
Neptune.
Saturn closely opposite Venus, widely opposite Sun, sextile
Jupiter, semi-sextile Uranus.  Mars opposite the Sun
only 2
degree orb, Mars trine Pisces ASC less than 4 degrees.
H2 – 2 planets, Sun and Venus (Mercury conjunct H2 cusp), Sun
and Venus in Taurus.  Sun opposite Mars, widely
trine Jupiter.
Venus opposite Saturn, but in a grand earth trine with Jupiter  and the Moon, and the Moon trines Neptune in
H10 too.
What do these patterns suggest?
H8, Scorpio, Pluto theme suggests trust issues.  The need to  connect on a deeper level.  Potential
intimacy issues.
Issues
regarding financial dealings.  Fear of loss…
H2, Taurus, Venus theme suggests that comfort is important to
her – material comfort.  Also “worthiness
issues” are
emphasized, i.e. self-worth .  Seeing the “reward” is important  to her; reward reinforces worthiness – and makes
the value of
any endeavor more worthwhile.  Tensions between H2 and H8 could involve money or attitudes that affect her
ability to  create abundance.  Fear of loss  impacts her relationships.  She  wants to know what to expect from others and feels the
pressures  of fulfilling agreements with others.
Is there anything about these patterns that connect with family?
Yes, Mars in Scorpio opposite the Sun suggests that her
relationship with Dad is likely connected to her trust
issues.   Perhaps she experienced rejection or abandonment with  him,  or she might have been close with him at one point, and then
have experienced separation or rejection.  Grandparents might  also
have been involved, Saturn is in H8 in Scorpio too!
Mars
is closely opposite the Sun, so there are some suggestions of an
active  relationship with her Dad, but with a real
potential  for tension and friction too.  With Venus opposite Saturn she   might have experienced some frustration  in her relationship
with her Mom, and this might also show a grandmother’s
influence?  Perhaps her Mom worked hard to bring in needed
money, Venus is trine the Moon in Virgo in H6 – both earth  signs – mom was practical, hard-working.  Mom’s job kept
mom
away, less time with her perhaps?  I also noticed the nearly
exact square of the Moon the Lunar Nodes.  This could
represent  some conflicts in the mother’s life.  Perhaps the mother wishes  she had been able to obtain more education, but instead had
to take a job to make money?  Mother would be insist that her  daughter get a good education; being “critical” of her too.
How do these patterns connect with the larger life purpose themes of the Lunar Nodes?
Because the North Node is in Gemini in H3 I keep thinking  about Mercury in Aries opposite Pluto.  Pluto is  the
dispositor of all of these Scorpio planets in H8 and the final  dispositor of  everything in the chart except the Sun and Venus!
This connects Pluto with her North Node in Gemini  theme.   Obviously, communication is real important to her
fulfillment.
So I wonder how well was she was heard and listened to when  she was growing up?  Did she feel that others were
interested in
her perspective?  Connecting is very important to her.  Mercury
in  Aries can be very direct, and her
Mercury is opposite Pluto -
which can be very intense.  Was there tension with a sibling?
Did she experience
confrontation growing-up?  Did she feel  misunderstood?  Were there frequent arguments, or  disagreements that left and undercurrent
of tension?  It would
seem that with the South Node in Sagittarius in H9 and Jupiter
in Capricorn in H10 that she
was quite able to make the
connection between educational performance and status.  She
might likely be a highly
motivated student.  However  arguments with father and criticism from mother could also   have characterized the environment she
grew up in.
What questions would you want to ask based upon these patterns and themes?
Was there tension in your relationship with your father when  you were growing-up?
(If “yes,” then what was this tension about?)
(If “no,” then , “Did your father seem interested in the things  you had to say?”)
Was anyone in your family interested in what you had to say?
Did you feel listened to by anyone in your family?
Were there a lot of arguments?
Did you vocalize your point of view or keep it to yourself?
Did your Mom worry about your educational progress?
Could your Mom be very critical of your efforts in school?
Were your parents successful in creating a stable and relatively  comfortable material environment for you growing- up?
Did you feel appreciated growing up?
Did your parents reward your accomplishments in some way?
What was their relationship like?
Are your ideas and point of view valued in your current job?
Additional notes and thoughts before talking with this person about their chart:
I want to find out how well she feels “heard and listened to” in
her life now.  She told me already that she has been
married
for two years.  I want to know how well she feels her husband  and her communicate.  I think good communication,
trust,
and
some material comfort are all key components of a  fulfilling life for her.
Here are the questions and concerns the client sent ahead of their session:
1. What do you see about my life direction?
2. In what ways can I improve myself?
3. I like my current job is as a writer for a top business magazine in China.  Does this
satisfy my career potential?
4. However, my husband’s company has asked me to write an article that I see as an
ethical conflict of interest issue.  I don’t how to handle this?
5. Though I love my husband, I am not as happily married as I hoped I would be.  His
birthdate is: September 24, 1980 at 8:10 a.m. in Shanghai.
6. We both work long hours, so during the week we are often tired – and I think
being tired contributes to our lack of intimacy during the week.  However, we
enjoy our
weekends together at home, cooking and relaxing.  We talk more on
the weekends,
but during the week I feel unhappy and I will argue with him.
7. Am I someone that can be happily married?  Do I want too much?
In Level 4, Lesson 3 we will begin to look at relationships.  This couple will be the
first couple we look at in terms of the astrology of relationships, and how a
holistic approach is conducive to obtaining a better understanding of relationship
issues.  The husband’s chart follows.  Study this chart in preparation for Lesson 3.
Husband
I. Becoming familiar with the chart (follow the previous exercise)
II. Looking for patterns and finding themes
A. What obvious patterns do you notice first?
(List those patterns by association in a group.)
B. What do these patterns suggest?
C. Is there anything about these patterns that connect with family?
D. How do these patterns connect with the larger life purpose themes of the Lunar
Nodes?
E. What questions would you want to ask based upon these patterns and themes?
F. Additional notes and thoughts before talking with this person about their chart.