Level Three, Lesson 6
More About Signs, Planets & Houses
Questions to ask yourself ?
The signs, planets, and houses tell us the questions to ask of
ourselves, or of others.  Knowing the questions to ask is the first
step towards discovering the truth about ourselves and our
experience of life.
In the list of questions that will follow, the signs, planets and houses
are grouped according to the zodiacal alphabet.  Some of these
associations are “interchangeable” in terms of our human
experience, but you will also notice some differences in signs, planets
and houses too.  However, their resonance is stronger than their
differences.
A Scorpio man may say, “I like to play Ma Jiang
because I can discover so much about the other
person.”  Yet this could also be true of the Sun in the
8th house or the Sun in a close aspect with Pluto.
In such a case, the question is:
“Why does the Scorpio man need to discover so much about the other person?”
Answer: “This is how he decides whether or not he can trust them, or in what
ways he might be able to trust them.”
Question:  “Are all Scorpios concerned with trust?”
Answer: “Yes, to varying degrees, depending on their experience of life –
especially in terms of early life experiences.”
SAMPLE QUESTIONS
With each question, use your answer to explore
further.  For example: If “yes,” think of some instances
of this and then move on to the next question; if “no”
then “why not?” Examine your history in light of your
own astrological make-up to see how this enhances
your awareness.
ARIES (Mars) 1st House:
Do I assert myself effectively?
Do I readily recognize my own self-interest?
Am I direct with others?
Do I readily take action for myself?
Am I sometimes too aggressive?
Am I frequently impatient?
Do I express my anger easily and then get over it?
Do I usually hide my anger?
Once I become angry, do I tend to stay angry for a while?
Am I more at ease with female friends or males friends?
Did my father, or other male influences, show me how to do things when I was
growing-up?
Did my father or other male influences encourage me to be assertive?
Am I confident physically?
Do I believe I could defend myself physically?
Could I runaway fast and escape harm?
Am I afraid of dogs?
Have dogs ever attacked me?
TAURUS (Venus) 2nd House
Is it easy for me to feel what has value?
Do I have a strong sense of what’s worth it and what isn’t, especially in terms of
material things?
Do I crave physical comfort?
Is it easy for me to enjoy comfort?
Do I relax easily?
Am I sensual?
Do I like to touch things that are smooth and soft?
Do I expect to be rewarded amply for my efforts?
Is material comfort important to me?
Do I really enjoy the good things that life has to offer?
Do I feel I am a worthwhile individual?
Is smell and taste important to me?
Do I crave abundance?
Do I crave candy and sweet things?
Do I spend money easily?
Did my mother show me how to do things when I was
growing-up?
Did any female take time to show me how to do things when I was growing-up?
Do I feel confident in buying clothing and choosing fashion?
As a ‘woman’ do I feel comfortable with make-up and beauty products?
Do I make a point to save money?
Do I sometimes splurge and spend more than I should?
Do I check my bank account balance nearly every day?
Gemini (Mercury) 3rd house
Do I talk with others easily?
Do I hear others easily?
Am I curious about many things?
Do I believe that I communicate well?
Do I enjoy feedback from others?
Do I believe others are interested in what I have to
say?
Am I a quick learner?
Was I a good student in elementary school?
Do I enjoy teaching or giving instruction?
Am I capable of learning more than one language?
Do I have good relations with my siblings?
Do I have good relations with my cousins?
Do I have good relations with my neighbors?
Do I follow directions easily?
Do I remember things easily?
Do I easily find short-cuts to get across town?
Am I quick to reply to other people’s questions?
Am I expedient in my email correspondence?
Do I enjoy reading?
Do I tend to keep up with the current-events and news?
Do I check weather reports?
Do I often debate with others, or get into arguments?
Do I sometimes say rude things?
CANCER (Moon) 4th house
Do I listen to my feelings?
Do I trust my emotions?
Do I usually have good instincts about things?
Am I a nurturing person?
Do I like to spend time in my home?
Is family important to me?
Do I like to cook?
Is privacy very important to me?
Does the need for emotional security strongly motivate
me?
Did I have a good relationship with my mother growing up?
Was my childhood family life secure and nurturing?
Do I love my mother?
Do I love my parents?
Do I enjoy spending time with my parents?
Do I feel secure in my current home?
Is it easy for me to express my emotions?
Do I generally feel secure?
Do I allow others to nurture me?
Do I like kids?  Do I have or want children?
Do I need others to nurture me?
Am I sentimental?
Do I tend to dwell upon the past?
Do I like to collect memorabilia?
Leo (Sun) 5th house
Am I a confident individual?
Do I like to be in charge of things?
Do I like to be the center of attention?
Do I have a lot of pride?
Is my ego easily offended?
Do I enjoy celebrating life!
Do I like being in charge of special projects?
Am I good at planning a party?
Do I have expensive taste in clothes and material things?
Do others accuse me of being dramatic?
Am I sometimes a show-off?
Do I enjoy playing games?
Did I have a good relationship with my father growing-up?
Did my father spend time with me?
Do I believe my father loves me? (Or loved me?)
Do I love my father?
Was I important to my father?
Do I sometimes feel special?
Do I prefer male friends or female friends?  (Or either?)
In groups do I tend to play a leadership role?
Do I try to set a positive example for others?
I tend to shine the most in _________________________.
(Fill in the blank.)
VIRGO (Mercury) 6th house
Am I good at organizing things?
Do I have good analytical skills?
Am I a logical person? Do I depend upon logic?
Am I a very practical person?
Do I makes lists?
Am I good at prioritizing things?
Am I a good editor?
Would I make a good content editor for a website?
Does health and nutrition interest me more than most people?
Would I make a good film editor if I has such an opportunity?
Am I neat?
Am I very conscious of being clean?
Do I tend to be obsessive about cleanliness?
Am I a critical person?
Do I criticize others?
Would I make a good film-critic?
Am I clever or adept with computers?
Can I fix broken things?
Am I a picky person?
Do I take pride in a job well done?
Am I adept at selecting items that fit the requirements?
Am I a perfectionist?
Is organizing my work schedule very important to me?
LIBRA (Venus) 7th house
Am I a cooperative person?
Is the well-being of others of concern to me?
Do I tend to accommodate others?
Is keeping the peace important to me?
Am I good at building relationships of all kinds?
Am I a good negotiator?
Am I willing to compromise in order to reach a fair agreement?
Am I indecisive?
Do I expend a lot of energy trying to keep everyone else happy?
Am I good at forging agreements with others?
Is marriage/partnership important to me?
Is the well-being of my partner a high priority in my life?
Do I tend to be significantly influenced by others?
Has my current partner, or former partners, significantly influenced me?
Am I a “people person?”  Meaning, do I like people?  Am I social?
Does psychology interest me?
Did my mother or other females teach me how to get along with people or show
me how to interact with others, or be more aware of others?
Did a have good friends growing up?  Do I have a good social life now?
Did my mother or other females teach me about clothing?  Cosmetics?  Hair
styles?
Was I popular in school?  Elementary? High-school? College?
SCORPIO (Pluto) 8th house
Do you have 6th sense when it comes to danger?
Do you trust others easily?
Do you tend to obsess about rejection, betrayal or abandonment?
Are you frequently suspicious of others?
Do you obsess about potential crisis, yet are adept at
helping others in a crisis?
Do you like to be in control?
Do you attract confrontation?  Are you adept at dealing
with confrontation?
Do you consider yourself a survivor, or capable of surviving extreme situations?
Do others say you are an intense person?
Does obsessing tend to keep you from sleeping?
Do you ask more questions than you answer?
Are you a natural detective or researcher?
Are you good at interrogating people?
Are you a passionate person?
Do you sometimes feel envy intensely?
Can you become quite jealous?
Have you every spied on someone?  Or stalked them?
Are you reliable in a crisis, especially for friends and loved ones?
Are you quite capable of revenge?
Do you hate waste, and tend to hold on to things?
Is it difficult for you to let-go of a relationship?
Sagittarius (Jupiter) 9th house
Are you freedom loving?
Do you fear being trapped?
Do you like to keep your options open?
Are you outgoing?
Are you adventurous?
Do you generally tend to be optimistic?
Do you tend to be enthusiastic about your beliefs?
Is your philosophy of life important to you?
Do you love learning?
Are you a natural teacher?
Do you enjoy explaining things to people?
Do you love travel?
Have you traveled internationally?
Are you a natural sales person?
Are you sometimes opinionated?
Do you tend to exaggerate?
Are you generally honest?
Do you tell funny and sometimes outrageous stories?
Do you tend to laugh more than others?
Do you tell jokes and like to make others laugh?
Do you tend to overextend yourself?
Do you underestimate the amount of time something will take?
Do you sometimes promise more than can be realistically done?
Capricorn (Saturn) 10th house
Is success very important to you?
Do you fear failure more than most?
Do you love to win?
Do you hate to lose?
Are you quietly competitive?
Are you good at managing tasks?
Are you good at managing others?
Is commitment important to you?
Do you have a strong sense of responsibility and duty?
Do you like to stick with your plan?  Is having a time table important to you?
Do you experience inner fulfillment upon the completion of a goal?
Is status more important to you than most?
Are you willing to make sacrifices to achieve your goals?
Are you able to plan well and achieve your agenda?
Will you persevere despite frustrating delays?
Do you enjoy work more than most?
Are you more capable of self-discipline than most?
Do you have to fight your own harsh judgments regarding failure?
Do you struggle with pessimism and depression sometimes?
Is recognition important to you?
Does the prospect of fame and worldly success motivate you?
Could you handle the pressure of being a high-profile, or well-known individual?
Aquarius (Uranus) 11th house
Am I often detached?
Do I pride myself on my intellectual perspective?
Do I have a need to contribute?
Am I sometimes eccentric?
Am I a non-conformist?
Do I like to participate in groups yet retain autonomy?
Do I naturally have a more original way of looking at things?
Would I enjoy making a humanitarian or community contribution?
Am I very individualistic?
Am I somewhat contrary and rebellious?
Do I sometimes find it difficult to fit in?
Can I be both a part of a team and apart from the
team
at the same time?
Do I tend to have strong fixed ideas once I’m sure about something?
Do ideas that liberate people from the past really interest me?
Am I independent?
Do both original ideas and ancient ideas fascinate me?
Am I a keen observer of human behavior?
Am I a kind of amateur sociologist, interested in social trends and cultural
changes?
Am I impulsive?
Am I a risk-taker?
Do I sometimes think of myself as no-better than anyone else, but still very
different than most?
Pisces (Neptune) 12th house
Do you seem to be more sensitive than others?
Do you feel you recognize more complexities than most?
Do you have a vivid imagination?
Are you a dreamer?
Are you impacted by the suffering of others?
Do you often feel compassion for people in the world?
Is music important to you?
Are you creative in expressing your feelings and imagination?
Do you seem to require more time alone than most?
Are you interested in spiritual things?
Do you have escapist tendencies?
Do others accuse you of being evasive?
Do you have addictive tendencies?
Do you occasionally become temporarily overwhelmed by life and need to hide
from the world?
Do you have allergies?
Do you feel a need to help make the world a better place?
Are you impressionable?
Do films tend to have a significant effect upon you?
Are you adaptive?  Do you tend to “go with the flow?”
Do others say you tend to complicate things?
Do you feel comfortable by yourself?
Do you prefer to work behind the scenes?