1 / 10
Level 3 Lesson 8
Aspect Patterns and Aspect Associations
Even though recognition of aspect patterns is a more advanced and
sophisticated level of astrology, I think it is important for students to be
exposed to these aspect patterns and recognize them as they are learning
how to interpret aspect combinations.
The T-square aspect pattern is formed when the Sun, Moon or planets in opposition also
form a square with another point (or points). The pattern resembles the letter T when
viewed in the chart.
Consider the planets involved in this Grand Square, Mercury, Uranus
and Pluto.  What might this imply?  What about the fact that they are in
fixed signs?  Consider the nature of the opposition and the two squares,
and that Uranus squares both.  Think about the houses involved and
what this could mean.
2 / 10
A Grand Trine a pattern formed by three trines, whose planet pairs connect together three
planets of a chart.
Consider what a Grand Trine involving Mars, Jupiter and Saturn
might suggest?  How would this impact his style of action?  How
might a grand trine in fire operate?  The
houses involved are the 4th, 1st and 9th, what
could this mean?  Chamberlin was Prime
Minister of England from 1937 to 1940,
infamously known for his appeasement of
Hitler prior to World War II.
3 / 10
A Yod is formed with a planet in quincunx to two other planets that are sextile to one
another.
The great composer Franz Schubert was born with a Yod involving
Mars, Uranus and Neptune.  What does this combination imply?
Why might Schubert have been called an “artist with a keen
appetite for experimentation?”  Consider also the house positions of
Mars, Neptune and Uranus.  Schubert died at 31,
but was extremely prolific composing over 600
secular vocal works,7 complete symphonies, sacred
music, operas, incidental music and a large body of chamber and piano
music.
4 / 10
A Grand Cross is formed by a pattern consisting of four squares and 2 oppositions.  A
Grand Square is “technically’ formed by a pattern consisting of four squares “ with “at least
one of the oppositions” out of orb.  A Grand Square is exceedingly rare, because in order
for 4 squares to be within orb they almost always are within orb of the opposition.
Bart Star is the only quarterback in NFL history (National Football League,
USA) to lead a team to five championships (1961–62, 1965–67) as well as
Super Bowls I and II, and he did this despite chronic back problems from a
back strain received in College.  His early life was rough, with his father
away at war.  His relationship with his father further deteriorated following
the death of his younger brother when Bart was 13.  Consider how the
position of his Sun opposing Pluto and squaring Uranus and Jupiter relates
to his story.  How might “cardinal signs” respond to such pressures?  Think
about the houses too, these cardinal signs are in “fixed houses.”
5 / 10
A Kite is a configuration of aspects formed when the Sun, Moon or planets of a chart form
a Grand Trine, and two of them sextile a fourth planet which also opposes one of the
planets in the grand trine.
Aimee Semple McPherson was a hugely popular Christian spiritual leader
– an “evangelist” – in the USA during the 1920’s, who is also well
remembered for the scandal she created by claiming to have been
kidnapped in 1926 – though she was at first thought to have drowned –
and taken to Mexico, where she appeared 5 weeks later.   Due to the
public furor her disappearance had created and the claim of kidnapping,
an investigation was launched that resulted in a court case regarding a
possible hoax.  Some evidence came forth that Aimee McPherson had runoff with a
married man that worked for her Temple.  A number of witnesses claimed to have seem
them together.  The court case was inconclusive and charges of fraud were dropped.  Yet
the scandal of this case would follow her ministry the rest of her life.
6 / 10
Consider how the planets involved correspond to Aimee’s story.  Mercury is
involved with a grand trine with Jupiter, Neptune and Pluto.  Venus is sextile
both Mercury and Jupiter but notice the opposition of Venus with Neptune &
Pluto.   This pattern flew high in the breeze of publicity like a “kite.”
A Star of David or Grand Sextile is configuration of aspects formed when two Grand Trines
are present in a horoscope, connected with each other by sextiles. In the ideal case they
form a hexagon.
This little girl is just over 2 years old, so obviously her story has yet to be
told.  Her mother is a licensed therapeutic massage practitioner and
housewife and her father is a claims attorney with a new firm.  The father
works long hours on large “class action” law suits, creating some stress for
this girl’s new mother (whose grandmother is also a client of mine) –
which is why her mother came to me for a consultation.   What issues
might involve this complex interwoven aspect pattern?  Consider all of the
planets involved and think your way through this puzzle logically.  What issues might you
discuss with this girl’s mother or father if they were your friend or your client?
7 / 10
The Mystic Rectangle or Rectangle is comprised of two opposition aspects, connected with
two trine and two sextile aspects. Some consider the trines and sextile aspects release
points for the tension of the oppositions.
Angelina needs little introduction as her life story is well known.  In
her mystic rectangle both the Sun, Mars and the Moon are involved,
connecting this aspect pattern with her parental story.  What is
implied by her Sun opposite Neptune and her
Mars opposite Pluto.  How might the trines
and sextiles represent chances to heal and
resolve these issues with her father?  What
role do you think her mother played in her early life story?  Consider
the meaning of the houses too when it comes to where she might
find an outlet to express herself.
8 / 10
So, what do all of these “aspect patterns” mean?  Does each category have
a special definition or application?
The answers are “no” and “yes.”  If by “special definition” you mean a
specific diagnostic meaning the answer is NO.  If by “application” you
mean practical application the answer is YES!
In my experiences with clients in nearly 26,000 consultations over the last 39 years, I have
not been able to discern any specific diagnostic correlation with these aspect patterns,
such as “individuals with a Grand Cross are more likely to succumb to depression” or the
“Yod seems to point to some God-given destiny.”
However, what I have noticed is that the planets involved in these aspect patterns are
CONNECTED together in a meaningful way, meaningful in that the nature of the planets
involved will resonate in ways consistent with what we would expect from these planets,
and from the aspects involved!
In other words the MEANING of the PLANET (including Sun & Moon) remains consistent,
and likewise with the sign and house it is in.  Aspects represent connections, but it is the
meaning of the planet, along with its sign and house position, that will be obvious in the
person.
Consider that all aspects patterns are connected by being within “orb,” i.e.
close by degree.  When you eventually learn about “transits” in Level 4 & 5,
you will also see that these planets are “triggered” by the transiting planets,
which sets into motion a kind of “chain reaction” among the planets.
Both I and astrologer Sue Tompkins think that the best book ever written
about aspect patterns remains Bil Tierney’s “Dynamics of Aspect
Analysis.”
9 / 10
When I first purchased this book in 1980 it was called
“Perceptions in Astrology.”  Bil was a full time practicing
astrologer for many years.  He is now retired and writes
children’s books in his retirement.  He is a very private
somewhat reclusive man.  I have not been able to talk him
into coming to China.  However, of all of his books (and he
has authored another 6 books), this first one remains the
best for astrologers.  Bil is pictured here with me last year
in Roswell, Georgia, USA.
Bill retains his sharp wit
and the penetrating
insights he shared for
many years as a
practitioner, teacher
and lecturer.
The Huber’s are the respected founders of the Huber School of Astrology
in Switzerland.  I have not read their “Aspect Pattern Astrology” book, but
based upon their standing in the international astrological community
they are sure to offer some insights regarding the application and meaning
of aspect patterns.  (Bruno died in 1999, but both Louise and their son
Michael continue to write and teach.)
10 / 10
Stephanie Jean Clement’s “Aspect Patterns” is really misnamed and is more about
“Planetary Patterns” (originated by astrologer Marc Edmond Jones in the mid-20th Century
in the USA). However, she does devote some of her book to aspect patterns.
Sadly, I was very turned-off by the following statement she wrote:
“If the overall chart lacks a defined harmonic pattern, then we have an individual who must
define his or her own path without the support of the sympathetic vibrations of planets in
patterns.  Such individuals have to find their guides or angels for themselves.”
The assumption she is making is that “defined patterns”
are “harmonic.”  Meaning, that planetary patterns and
aspect patterns represent some kind of harmony, and
that if a chart doesn’t have such a pattern that they are
“unfortunately not in harmony” and have to fend for
themselves.  What COMPLETE NONSENSE this is, even in
terms of planetary patterns.  BEWARE of such flawed
thinking.  I do NOT RECOMMEND her book.
ALWAYS reality test concepts.  Both aspect patterns and planetary
patterns were invented by astrologers – and as such are abstract concepts
invented as a way to more easily identify and categorize “connections”
between planets.   We need to be careful not to impose these concepts as
labels onto people.  To say one chart is harmonious and another
disharmonious is just another way of saying “good” and “bad” or
“fortunate” and “unfortunate.”
What a terrible notion to judge some people as being “without the support of the
sympathetic vibrations of planets.”  (Which is ridiculous anyway.)
BE PRACTICAL!  Use aspect patterns as a way to discover more about your own truth, and
as a way to help others explore what is true and real about themselves.  Patterns show
“connections;” that can enable you to ask better questions about yourself and others.