Level 3 lesson 7
Prioritizing Aspects in the Chart Wheel
©www.nodoor.com
“I’m often not sure which aspects are the most important.  I
know that the “closer” the aspect the more emphasis it has,
but I get confused about which aspects to talk about.  There
are so many aspects in a chart I sometimes don’t know
where to start.  Is there a system or method of prioritizing
the aspects, so you know which aspects to spend more time
discussing?”
“Yes, there is a way to prioritize the aspects.  Remember,
how we talked about a chart being like a committee sitting
around a table?  Aspects show the relationships between
the people sitting around the table.
Conjunctions show combined energy, oppositions
“polarities and tensions,” squares are potential conflicts
and challenges on the committee.  Whereas trines show
areas of “resolution, ease, or potential harmony,” sextiles
“opportunities,” semi-sextiles “access” and quincunxes
“adjustments.”  However, different people on the
committee have roles that define their relative importance
or significance.
ASPECT REVIEW:
A combination, like the force of two people now instead of one!
Access.  A way to gain entrance to something, or to use something.
Opportunities that come from communication and association.
The basic “challenges” of life to secure a home and social status.
The ease of doing something, coordination and a sense of timing.
Adjustments in routine or process, and in close intimate bonds.
Relationship tensions, the negotiation of an agreement.
Here is a simple list of priorities for the aspects in a chart.
ASPECT PIORITIES  - numbered according to priority
1. The ANGLES have the greatest priority in a chart!
ASC & DSC
Horizon
MC & IC
Meridian
2.
The Sun and Moon are second.
3.
Venus,  Mercury, Mars, and the
Lunar Nodes are all tied for third.
4.
Jupiter and Saturn are fourth.
5.
Uranus, Neptune and Pluto are tied at
fifth place.
“Okay, but how does this work?  Are you saying that the ASC
and or the Sun and Moon are more important than Pluto or
Uranus?  I don’t understand this?  It seems to me that Pluto or
Neptune are just as important as the Sun and Moon.  I’m
going to need to see some examples of this in order to be
grasp these priorities.”
SAMPLE CHART
Examine the natal chart above.  Consider the
aspects that are listed and also drawn with
colored lines.  Red for squares and oppositions,
green for sextiles and trines, and blue for
quincunxes and semi-sextiles.  How would you
prioritize these aspects?  (Use the orbs listed.)
FOR MAJOR ASPECTS TO ANGLES WE RECOMMEND AN ORB OF 5 DEGREES
Answer the following questions for the sample chart:
What is the closest aspect to the ANGLES in the natal chart above?
ASC
What is the next closest aspect to the ANGLES in this chart?
ASC
What is the next closest aspect to the Angles?
ASC
What are the next closest aspects to the Angles, (in order)?
MC
MC
MC
MC
MC
Because of the ANGLES, Jupiter, the Lunar Nodes,
Saturn, Neptune, Mars, Venus, Pluto and the Sun, are
all highlighted.  However, what makes these planets
important, especially the outer planets, is that they
ASPECT the ANGLES!
What are the next aspects in order of priority?
What are the next aspects by priority?
Notice how this order of priority gradually
eliminates all of the aspects in the natal chart.
Consider that the ANGLES are the most unique
expression at the moment of birth; thus the angles
often show the most unique features of the
individual.  The Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus and
Mars are often called the “personal” planets and
represent the most human features of a person.
The Sun and Mars correspond to Dad or male
influence, the Moon and Venus to Mom or female
influence, while Mercury is siblings, first cousins or
neighbors.  Hence the personal planets are like one’s
immediate family. From Jupiter to Saturn and on to the
outer planets Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto the
planetary energies are powerful but less personal, less
human in some ways.
Another Chart Example:
Male
M
List the aspects for this chart according to the
priority you have just learned.  Think about the
aspects as you list them in terms of what this
means about the individual.  Consider the
questions you would ask this person, and the
issues you would expect to be a part of their
experience of life.