www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  1 / 10
Level Three: Module 1
“Reviewing planet, sign, and house combinations”
©www.nodoor.com
Welcome to Nodoor’s LEVEL THREE COURSE!  In
this program we will focus on aspects and how to
interpret aspects in combination with planet, sign
and house configurations.  You’ll learn how to
understand and explain these combinations in
everyday language with practical examples from a
“humanistic” personal development perspective.
Later, using sample natal charts you’ll discover
useful methods of recognizing what has priority in
a chart.  Many of your webinars will be devoted to
analyzing natal charts and demonstrating ways to
more readily interpret and explain the different
levels of meaning.  By the end of this course you should be able to talk more
easily with others about their natal chart, and more confidently discuss the issues
and themes of their chart.
This course teaches you the fundamentals of chart interpretation and
synthesis.You can discover more about how to use a chart as a frame of reference
for personal growth.
I deeply appreciate this opportunity to share with you these astrological principals
and methods that I have practiced professionally for the last thirty-nine years and
look forward to seeing you online for each webinar!”
David Railey
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by
Planet, sign and house
The first cou
about their c
computers, s
diner and ta
flawed, and
Embarrass
Do you know
where his Mars is!
y David Railey  2 / 10
combinations: A review!
uple of years I studied astrology I would talk with
charts.  We didn’t have We Chat or cell phones o
so we would sit up late drinking coffee at a loca
lking astrology.  Many times my interpretation w
my friends would tease me incessantly.
sment is one way to learn…
He’s got Mars in
Capricorn; I’m sure
he’s quite
ambitious.
Perhaps, bu
in the 12
Maybe his a
join a B
Monastery
the hea
h my friends
or even personal
l
was
Planets
signs
Houses
ut his Mars is
2th house.
ambition is to
Buddhist
and become
ad monk!
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  3 / 10
Planet, sign and house combinations: A review!
Yes, but astrology is so complicated! I feel so
frustrated trying to synthesize a chart.
Frustration is normal at this stage.  You can’t really
synthesize a chart until you’ve learned aspects, and
this takes time and practice.
My Sun is in Pisces in the
6th House.  Does this
mean I’m both a Pisces
and a Virgo?  I don’t feel
like a Virgo at all, but I am
getting a nursing degree.
Is that Pisces or Virgo, or
both?
The bathroom still looks like a
tsunami hit it after she
showers!  And she uses my
toothpaste;  but I like using
those healing “essential oils”
she leaves sitting out.
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  4 / 10
©www.nodoor.com
Planet, sign and house combinations: A review!
Sample Question:
Recently an online student asked me: “What does it mean if someone
has the North Node in Virgo in the 1st house and the Moon in Aries?
Does the position of the Moon have anything to do with the Lunar Nodes
and if so how can this be explained?”
This is a very good question and directly relates to the challenge of interpreting sign, planet and
house combinations.  As you know, the Lunar Nodes are extremely important in regards to
one’s overall life-path, so knowing how to integrate other birth positions with the Lunar Nodes
is essential in understanding the central themes of a person’s life story.  Here was my answer.
The Moon relates to both nodes; after all they are the “Lunar” Nodes.
Someone born with the North Node in Virgo in the 1st house is learning
how to organize their life and become more self-reliant.  With the South
Node in Pisces in the 7th house they are already intuitive about others,
and may also have a well-developed capacity for handling complex
people, complicated circumstances, and sensitive situations. However,
in the negative sense they may have “boundary issues,” and hurt their
own self-interest and self-development by escaping into the problems
of others.
Add to this nodal equation an 8th house Moon in Aries and the dynamic becomes one of self-
discovery through confrontation and more intense interactions with others.  The sign Aries
represents the most pure expression of self-interest, but in the 8th house the assertiveness of
Aries when expressed through the Moon collides directly with the needs of their partner.  The
person with the Moon in Aries in the 8th house has a more immediate and impatient need for
emotional, intimate, or sexual gratification, which naturally elicits a response for better or
worse from the object of their intentions!  Aries is the “sign” associated with the “1st house.”
Anyone with the North Node in the 1st house is “learning” how to become more effectively
assertive, thus being also born with an Aries Moon implies that “confrontation with partners”
will help to forge the new self.
There is going to be “fireworks” with an Aries Moon in the 8th
house, and passion too!  Naturally, a person born with an 8th
house Moon is more emotionally sensitive to feelings of
rejection and could likewise have significant fears regarding
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  5 / 10
betrayal.  With the South Node in Pisces in the 7th house they may attempt to placate their
partner, forgiving wrong doing and being sympathetic to their partner’s problems.  Such
tolerant behavior may temporarily secure the partnership, but with an 8th house Aries Moon his
or her own needs cannot remain disguised for long!
“That’s okay darling; I forgive you,” she says, when her husband comes home feeling miserable
and confesses that he lost money drinking and gambling.  However, her husband may find his
wife is not in the mood for sex, or if she “is” in the mood his drunken state may render him
useless to her – adding to her frustrations.  Even worse if he wants to borrow money from her
to pay his debts; she will struggle emotionally and she’s likely to
become angry and explode.  “Didn’t you consider how this would
impact ME?  And now you want me to rescue you?!”  Through
this confrontation about money and trust, a more defined sense
of self-interest emerges.  Over time the person born with a 1st
house North Node and an 8th house Aries Moon could become
better at being able to negotiate agreements that include her
own interests; and she could learn to trust herself better in
handling confrontation, no longer allowing her fears of rejection,
betrayal or abandonment to stand in the way of her own self-
interest.  As she becomes less inclined to “betray herself,” she will be more able to assert
herself effectively.  This is the beginning of personal growth.
Analysis of Interpretation
Let’s identify the logic that connects this combination of North Node in Virgo in the 1st house
and the Moon in Aries in the 8th house.
 The Moon is always linked to the Lunar Node theme in some way because both the
North Node and the South Node are the Moon’s Nodes.
 Since the North Node is in the 1st house in Virgo the South Node is obviously in the 7th
house in Pisces.
 1st house connects with the sign Aries
 Both the 7th house and the 8th house are “relationship” houses (even though they deal
with different relationship issues)
Read the interpretation above again and think about the key words and phrases and
associations that are being made.  Consider the astrological components being discussed.
 North Node – “learning how”
 South Node – “already” “well-developed capacity”
 Moon – “emotional” “emotionally sensitive to feelings”
 Virgo – “organize their life”
 Pisces – “complex people, complicated circumstances, and sensitive situations”
 Aries – “immediate” “impatient”
 1st house – “self-reliant”
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  6 / 10
 7th house – “partner” “partner’s problems” “partnership”
 8th house – “rejection” “fears regarding betrayal” “confrontation”
These are only some of the key words and phrases used in explaining what this combination of
Nodes, Moon, signs and houses mean.  See if you can identify other key words and phrases used.
Constructive and Destructive Manifestations
In the previous interpretation more obviously challenging circumstances were presented as an
example of how this astrological combination might manifest in an actual true life situation.
However, what if a woman born with the North Node in Virgo in the 1st house and the Moon in
Aries in the 8th house had “already” been living her life with more awareness?  Suppose she had
chosen a partner that had more “positive” Pisces-like attributes?  The “key word” here is
“chosen,” and is singled out because anyone born with the North Node in Virgo is learning how
to be me more selective and make more conscious “choices.”  With the South Node in Pisces in
the 7th house her tendency is to automatically adapt or go along with someone, allowing a
relationship to just happen to her.  A husband that drinks and gambles represents a more
destructive extreme.  We know that with Pisces in her 7th house she is likely to attract more
sensitive and complex partners, but how might that manifest in a more constructive way?  What
about her 8th house Moon in Aries; how could that be expressed in a more positive way?  Here
is an example:
Her husband now works as a creative director for CCTV.  When she first met him he had just
graduated from the Beijing Film Academy and was looking for a job.  She loved his sensitivity
and imagination, but she was concerned about how practical and realistic he might be.  She had
already obtained a degree in accounting and landed a job with a new cutting-edge investment
firm that appeared to be off to a good start.  Her salary enabled her to be relatively
independent, living in a small but modern apartment with just one
roommate.  When her “then” film graduate boyfriend got a job with
CCTV she was excited for him, and became even more convinced after
his first year with the station that he was the right choice for her.  They
were married shortly afterwards, and she remains very happy with her
decision.  She loves hearing his excitement about the latest creative
project he’s working on, and finds herself immediately attracted to him
all over again. Her husband is truly a kind and caring man as well, and
she tells about how he actually used-up some of his vacation time to stay home from work and
look after her once when she had the flu.  The only area of any significant disagreement they’ve
experienced was over sharing a joint bank account.  She did not like having to keep up with
what he was doing with their account, so after several discussions they agreed to keep separate
bank accounts.  She feels she is married to the “man of her dreams,” but she loves her job and
her own more organized sense of self-reliance and independence.
What do you notice in this positive example of a woman born with the North Node in Virgo in
the 1st house, with the Moon in Aries?
The most obvious difference in the positive example is that this woman seems to “know and
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  7 / 10
understand” her own needs better.  She is more fully “aware” of herself and makes more
balanced decisions too.  Notice how she is living a life with optimum balance between her
partnership life and the sense of independence she gets from her job.  In addition she dealt
successfully with the challenge of negotiating about joint financial issues with her husband and
reached an arrangement that she is satisfied with.  Even though she is an “accountant” by
profession, befitting “literally” her Virgo North Node and “probably” Virgo ASC, her Aries Moon
is more comfortable with having her own separate checking/bank account – despite the fact
that she has the Moon in the 8th house.  So she is asserting her needs with her husband in
matters of “shared resources.” Add to this her 7th house South Node in Pisces “sensitivity” in
trying to keep-up with her husband’s day to day circumstances as reflected by his banking
transactions.  She doesn’t want to be focused on the details of what he’s doing; she’d rather
focus on her own individual areas of concern.  Even though her husband might be somewhat
loose financially in terms of how he spends his money or less organized, she “trusts” him
fundamentally and this “trust” is based in part upon her having observed his behavior for a
while.  She did not marry him until she knew he had a job he would stay with and knew that he
paid his own bills on time, etc.  Importantly, she has also learned how to “trust” herself, and to
trust her own ability to organize her life in practical terms.  Trust “begins” with trusting one’s
self, and in her case there is the added “fulfillment incentive” of a 1st house North Node.   Some
of her decision making may seem simply very “practical,” and it is!  Yet such “practicality” is
exactly the kind of behavior that a person with the North Node in Virgo is learning about.
Yes, the South Node is more indicative of automatic behavior and tendencies, but “awareness”
makes all the difference when it comes to our behavior.  Therefore “something” has brought
about a greater awareness for this young woman in the positive scenario that has not occurred
yet in the other more negative scenario.  Certainly we have to take into account the
circumstance of early environment.  In this case we don’t have the complete picture of her natal
chart yet, so we are limited in our assessment.  However, even using this relatively simple
combination of North Node in Virgo in the 1st house with an 8th house Aries Moon we can
construct some possibilities.
In the first more challenging example, suppose she grew up with a Mom [Moon] that had
impulsively [Aries] married early to an unreliable man?  Her Mom may have struggled or fought
with her husband (girl’s father) about money [8th house] and so the girl grew up in an
environment that provided this type of negative example.  However, even in this situation the
“I want to know what has contributed to these two
different outcomes.  Why is the woman in the more
positive example making better choices?  She is still
young and yet she acts more wisely than in the negative
example.  How is this possible?  Isn’t the South Node
more indicative of our automatic or unthinking behavior
and tendencies?”
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  8 / 10
mother would have been challenged to assert herself [Aries Moon] to survive [8th house] and
this would have influenced the girl growing up as well and served to reinforce more 1st house
independent behavior.  If her Mom was away at work for long hours the girl had to fend for
herself, but she also experienced the anxiety of separation [8th house].  However, though we are
missing important clues about her father(no Sun and Mars information); suppose we postulate a
“weak father” scenario, which then inclines her to solve this “unresolved problem” with her
father when she grows-up through a relationship with a man that has some dysfunctional
weaknesses – as indicated by her husband’s drinking and gambling behavior.
In the positive example the young woman’s mother may also have had to assert herself
independently to help them survive financially when she was growing-up; this would still be
consistent with an 8th house Aries Moon.  Likewise this would have set an example of
independence and resourcefulness, yet still created some anxiety from being separated from
her Mom.  However, what if in the second case the father had been a healthier figure or
influence, could this make a difference in the type of man she attracts?  Answer: “yes it could.”
With more of a positive father influence it would be “easier” for her to both attract and
recognize a healthier type of male.  Since we do not know the positions of the Sun and Mars in
her chart we can only speculate theoretically.
Nonetheless, either way, the key to the outcome begins with “awareness.” Even in the first
example, the woman can learn through the challenges of her circumstances and experience
significant personal growth.  The more she acts upon her improved awareness the better and
more fulfilling her life will become.  Of course awareness alone is only the beginning, and really
involves three steps, each step enhanced by astrological insights.
Personal Growth FormulaAstrology used in a non-
labeling and non-judgmental way to discover your
truth and reveal your potential provides guidance with
each of the following three steps:
1. Awareness – recognizing a repeated pattern of behavior and the consequences;
identifying your underlying “belief systems” and early environmental
influences. Becoming more aware of your positive potential and positive
alternatives!
2. Acceptance – accepting the reality of your behavior with non-judgmental
understanding.  As peaceful acceptance of your past emerges you can begin to
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by
open and accept the po
3. Change – allowing your
creating healthier patte
new and better way of
increasingly unlimited.
A natal chart provides u
“Imagine the difference pe
example we focused on.  H
have built a different kind o
lead to positive change.   I
Key Word Exercises
Fill in the following
you read the whol
North Node in Capricorn in the
that your greatest success will c
y David Railey  9 / 10
ossibilities of your own positive potential
r greater awareness and acceptance to gu
erns of behavior, with better outcomes th
living.  The potential for fulfillment becom
us with a map for the journey of a lif
ersonal growth astrology might have mad
Had she understood herself better before
of marriage, but at any stage in life “unde
have seen this with clients of all ages.” D
g blanks with the appropriate astrological assoc
e paragraph before filling in the blanks:
e ___5th____ house involves acquiring confidenc
come from trusting your own individual talents.
In analyzing each and every pl
combination it’s wise to consid
potential for both constructive
destructive manifestation. Ho
important to talk about this in
judgmental way that allows fo
and open discussion within w
deeper realizations can emerg
Astrology can be truly liberatin
used for self-understanding, f
from any limited or false belie
ourselves and our lives.
.
uide you in
hat reinforce a
mes
fetime!
de with the first
hand she might
erstanding” can
DR
iations. Make sure
ce and learning
.  Your South Node
lanetary
der the
e and
wever, it is
n a non-
or a free
hich
ge.
ng when
reeing us
efs about
www.nodoor.com Level 3 Course by David Railey  10 / 10
in Cancer in the ____11th____ house implies that you tend to secure yourself as part of a team
or group, which is more typical of joining a company or an organization for career security.
However, over time you are likely to feel the urge to do succeed at something that either puts
you in more of a leadership or management role, or even breakaway altogether from a secure
company to found your own business or pursue a more entrepreneurial career.  This takes time.
Standing out from the group or “showcasing” your talents will be an acquired thing, but your
need to succeed is likely to motivate you to compete more individually.
Having the _____Sun______ in the _____10th_____house could imply that her father was a
man of significant responsibility or that he was fairly well respected by his peers, or both.  Either
way her father likely set a very visible example and probably motivated her to be successful in
her own career.  Any important boss might become a father figure, and any unresolved issues
she had regarding recognition or respect from her father would play out with this boss.
Her ____12th_____ house position of ______Mercury______ might show a natural curiosity
about all things spiritual.  Though having ___Mercury___ in the sign of ____Gemini_____ really
increases the likelihood that she could be a writer, especially considering the ____12th _____
house capacity for the kind of alone time or isolation that a writer often requires.
Certainly his _____Aries_______ ASC could account for his sometimes aggressive personality,
but his __ Moon in Sagittarius __ in the ____8th_____ house shows his wicked sense of humor,
which he candidly admits was his way of getting his mother’s attention in between her frequent
absences when he was a boy.
Both her mother and her grandmother were resilient and resourceful women who had
dedicated their lives to the survival and well-being of the family, as indicated by having both her
____Moon______ and her ____Saturn _____ in the sign of ____Scorpio____ in the
_____4th______ house.   She was just as dedicated to the family as both of them and shared
their sense of duty, though control battles over managing household and family issues were
inevitable.