Level Three, Lesson 3:  Learning about ASPECTS
“Finding aspects and learning how to interpret them”
©www.nodoor.com
Aspect calculation example # 1:  (Remember there are 30⁰ to each sign.)
12⁰         20’ and        16⁰        44’
1)         is in Scorpio – the earlier sign, coming before Aquarius
2) If the         was already at 16⁰        44’ how many degrees would
there be between Pluto and the Sun?
From  16⁰       44’to 16⁰         44’ = 30⁰
From 16⁰        44’to 16⁰         44’ = 30⁰
From 16⁰        44’ to 16⁰        44’ = 30⁰
Answer>
Total Degrees =  90⁰  or a square aspect
What is the exact angle and is it within the 7 degree ORB?
3) 16⁰        44’
(-) 12⁰        20’
04⁰        24’    < Answer: This is within the ORB of 7 degrees.
90⁰         00’ (Remember, there are 60 minutes in a degree!)
(-)   4⁰         24’   You subtract because the Sun is moving away from Pluto.
85⁰         36’  <Answer: This is the exact angle!
How to find aspects:
o Identify the  planet or point in the earlier sign
o Count the degrees as if the aspect were exact
o Add or subtract the degrees of the planet or
point in the later sign
Aspect calculation example #2:
20⁰        38’ and          22⁰       27’
1)          is in Cancer – the earlier sign.
2)  If        was already at 22⁰         27’ how many degrees would
there be between Mercury and Neptune?
From  22⁰        27’ to 22⁰          27’ = 30⁰
From\22⁰        27’ to 22⁰          27’ = 30⁰
From 22⁰         27’ to 22⁰          27’ = 30⁰
From 22⁰         27’ to 22⁰         27’  = 30⁰
From 22⁰         27’ to 22⁰         27’  = 30⁰
Answer> Total Degrees  = 150⁰ or a quincunx aspect
What is the exact angle and is it with the 3 degree orb?
3) 22⁰        27’
(-)20⁰        38’
01⁰         49’
<Answer: This is within the orb of 3 degrees.
In this example you must add this amount to 150⁰ to get the exact
angle because Mercury is moving back towards Neptune:
150⁰ + 01⁰  49’ = 151⁰ 49’  <Answer: This is the exact angle.
Isn’t it easier to find aspects just by looking at the signs?  All
signs of like elements i.e. fire, earth, air and water signs are
trine each other, right?  And all signs of like modality meaning
cardinal, fixed or mutable signs are either square or opposite,
correct?
Answer: In the natural zodiac this is true, and it is very often
true in an actual chart – which can be “helpful” in finding
aspects.  However, aspects are measured by “degree,” and
you can have what are called “out of sign” aspects.  Therefore
finding aspects by sign only could be very misleading.
Yes!  For example, Mars in the sign of Capricorn could actually
trine Jupiter in Aries, two signs that are square each other in
the natural zodiac.  Suppose natal Mars was at 2 degrees of
Capricorn and natal Jupiter was at 28 degrees of Aries, what is
exact angle between them?
2⁰        compared to        28⁰               What is the aspect angle?
If Mars was at 28 degrees of Capricorn we would have an
exact square, as Aries and Capricorn are square each other as
signs in the natural zodiac.  However, Mars is at only 2
degrees, which is 26 degrees before such an exact square.
Then how do you find the angle between Mars and Jupiter?
90⁰ + 26 = 116⁰  Is this within the 7 degree orb of a trine?  “Yes!”
The         trine in this case is 4⁰ from an exact trine of 120,⁰ well within the
orb of 7.⁰
This is called an  “OUT OF SIGN TRINE”
An out of sign trine represents greater ease between two
signs that generally challenge each other.
Think of this as being like two people
that are often conflicted finding
themselves more at ease with each
other.  Though an out of sign trine
may not express as purely as an in-
sign trine, it still shows the ability to
harmonize two very differently
motivated energies.  What might
otherwise represent a dilemma, now
finds easier expression.
Let’s break this aspect down into its components
to understand what this means.
2⁰                    28⁰
Any Mars Jupiter aspect tends to energize an individual – stimulating action;
though a square would show a tendency to overdo it.  Aries and Capricorn
represent different kinds of motivation.  Aires urges us to “do it now” while
Capricorn needs a plan.  Someone with Mars in Capricorn prefers a more
effective plan of operations within which actions are taken more efficiently.
Jupiter has more to do with our philosophy or belief system.
A woman with this combination likely has a philosophy of self-reliance, she
probably believes that life’s benefits come to those who take action for
themselves.  With Mars in Capricorn though, her style of action is not
headstrong.  She is competitive and she wants to “win” but she’s more
concerned about how to carry out a plan effectively.  If her Mars and Jupiter
were square, she would tend to rush her efforts achieving her goals less
efficiently and having to learn the hard way to “pace herself” and not try to
do in one day what could be done more effectively in three.   “Haste makes
waste,” is the old saying – and with Mars square Jupiter this can mean
wasted effort or wasted energy.  However, with an out of sign trine this
energetic woman seems to find a way to make her life function more easily,
finding time to work-out and exercise some everyday, and staying on track
with her career tasks and goals as well.
Notice that the woman in the picture is taking the time to “stretch” her
muscles.  Whereas a woman or a man with Mars square Jupiter might
overdo their workout or not leave
enough time to stretch and injure a
muscle, leaving them unable to work-
out for days and hamper their efforts in
other ways.  Many people born with
such a square learn how to correct their
behavior, and benefit from the extra
energy of Mars and Jupiter.  Such
personal development  in working with a
Mars Jupiter square allows someone to
overcome their anxiety about securing
their life, and become more efficient in
achieving their goals.
Out-of-sign aspects show us how important aspects are!  Aspects
MODIFY the expression of planets and signs!  However, for now
focus on the meaning of all aspects, regardless of whether or not
they are in or out of sign.
How do I explain the meaning of aspects?
How to build sentences astrologically with aspects!
Let’s start with Venus
We know among other things that Venus indicates what you like
and don’t like, as well as social tendencies.
Let’s put        in the sign of Leo
“You like parties.” <This is a simple statement about Venus in Leo.
Let’s put             trine       Uranus
Let’s continue to build our sentence…
“You really like exciting parties with all different kinds of people.”
What other kind of sentences could you write to express the
meaning of this same astrological aspect?
“You can easily entertain people from all walks of life!”
“It’s easy for you to become infatuated by new people.”
“You have original taste in fashion and people.”
“Your tend to take the excitement of your life for granted.”
What if we now add houses?
6th house                   10th house
“You keep everyone at work entertained.”
“Your company wants you to organize the
company parties and special events.”
“Your original aesthetic tastes add special
features to the quality of your work.”
“You brighten-up and bring excitement to the workplace.”
to build your
astrological vocabulary and explanation!
How would you build sentences from the following aspect
combinations?
3rd house
Example: “You’re interested in teaching those ideas that can be
depended on to produce a more profitable scenario.”
Now, write 3 sentences that express other facets of this aspect
combination:
What about this aspect combination?  Write 3 sentences that
express both meaning and examples.
7th house                  4th house
Practice writing as many combinations as you can think of!