TheA51rol~
ofFate
Liz Greene
~WEISERBOOKS
L!J
Boston, MA/York Beach, ME
First published in 1984 by
Red Wheel/Weiser, llC
368 Congress Street
Boston, MA 02210
www.redwheelweiser.com
Copyright © 1984 Liz Green
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced
or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or
mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any
information storage and retrieval system, without
permission in writing from Red Wheel/Weiser.
Reviewers may quote brief passages.
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number:
84-51742
ISBN 0-87728-636-1
MV
Cover illustration by Liz Greene
Printed in the United States of America
10 09 08 07 06 05
13 12
11
10 9 8
The paper used in this publication meets the minimum
requirements of the American National Standard for
Information Sciences-Permanence of Paper for Printed
Library Materials Z39.48-1984.
To John, with love
Death is certain, and when a man's fate has
come, not even the gods can save him, no
matter how they love him.
Homer
And God-the-Mind, being male and female
both, as Light and Life subsisting, brought
forth another Mind to give things form, who,
God as he was of Fire and Spirit, formed
Seven Rulers who enclose the cosmos that
the sense perceives. Men call their ruling
Fate.
Corpus Hermeticum
One should not speak of fate. It is too
paganish a word.
Oliver Cromwell, to the First
Protectorate Parliament
Free will is the ability to do gladly that which
I must do.
C. G. Jung
Contents
Introduction
Part One
MOIRA
1
Fate and the Feminine
2
Fate and Pluto
3
The Astrological Pluto
4
Fate and the Family
5
Fate and Transformation
6
The Creation of the World
Part Two
DAlMaN
7
Fate and Myth
8
Myth and the Zodiac
Part Three
PRONOIA
9
Fate and Synchronicity
10
Fate and the Self
Notes
Glossary of Mythological Names
Index
page 1
15
17
36
52
89
122
157
161
163
176
267
269
313
342
347
361
Introduction
What isordained is master ofthegods andthee.
Euripides
Once upon a time, it is said, there lived in Isfahan a young man
who spent his days as servant to a wealthy merchant. On a fine
morning the young man rode to market, carefree and with his
purse jingling with coins from the merchant's coffers to buy meat
and fruit and wine; and there in the market-place he saw Death,
who beckoned to him as though about to speak. In terror the
young man turned his horse about and fled, taking the road that
led to Samara . By nightfall, filthy and exhausted -he had reached
an inn there, and with the merchant's money procured a room,
and collapsed upon the bed with mingled fatigue and relief, for it
seemed he had outwitted Death. But in the middle of the night
there came a knock at the chamber door, and in the doorway stood
Death, smiling affably. 'How come you to be here?' demanded the
young man, white-faced and trembling; '1 saw you only this
morning in the market-place in Isfahan.' And Death replied:'Why,
I have come to collectyou, as it is written. For when Isaw you this
morning in the market-place in Isfahan, Itried tosay that you and I
had an appointment tonight in Samara. But you would not let me
speak, and only ran away.'
This is a short, sweet folktale, and one might read many themes
into it. Butamong its deceptively simple lines issurely embedded a
comment about fate: its irrevocability and yet, paradoxically, its
dependence upon the will of man for its fruition. Such a tale,
because it is paradoxical, invites all manner of philosophical and
metaphysical speculation, of the sort with which sensible people
do not occupy themselves. For example: If the servant had stayed
and spoken with Death, would he have still had to die in Samara?
What ifhe had taken another road? Could he have taken another
road? If not, then what power, inner or outer, directed him to the
appointed place? What if, like the knight in Bergmann's The
Seventh Seal, he had challenged Death? Or, in short, that queer
2
The Astrology of Fate
conundrum which the East has always treated with such subtlety,
yet which the West has persisted in reducing to an either-or,
black-and-white choice: are we fated, or are we free?
I have found that the word fate is often quite offensive to many
people in this enlightened twentieth century. Death has at last
been separated from its original unity with fate, and has been
transformed into a clinical, rather than a metaphysical, phenom-
enon. But this was not always so. Fate was called Moira by the
Greeks, and was from earliest times a daimon of doom and death, a
great power older than the oldest gods. Greek philosophy had
quite a lot to say about fate, which we shall explore in due course.
But mentioning fate now seems to imply a loss of control, a sense of
powerlessness, impotence and humiliation. When Cromwell told
his Parliament that they should not speak of fate, he gave voice to a
sentiment that has pervaded our social and religious outlook ever
since. The history of philosophy hinges upon the profound issue
of man's fate and freedom; yet modem philosophical writers such
as Bertrand Russell see 'fatalism' and its inevitable creative chil-
dren - the mantic or divinatory arts - as a kind of taint spawned by
Pythagoras and Plato on pure rational thought, a stain which
discoloured the otherwise brilliant fabric of the classical Greek
mind. Wherever there is a concern with fate, there isalso a concern
with astrology, for the concept of Moira evolves from the vision of
an orderly, interconnected cosmos; and astrology in particular
finds disfavour with the modern school of philosophy embodied
by Russell. As Professor Gilbert Murray says, 'Astrology fell upon
the Hellenistic mind as a new disease falls upon some remote
island people.' Russell quotes this passage in his History ofWestern
Philosophy, and caps it with one of his own:
The majority of even the best philosophers fell in with the belief
in astrology. Itinvolved, since it thought the future predictable,
a belief in necessity or fate.!
Christian theology too found this subject of fate a great problem.
The denial of Moira, or Heimarmeni as it is sometimes called in early
astrological texts, has been a popular Christian theme for many
centuries, and it does not require a mind of great brilliance to
suspect that this denial rests on grounds somewhat subtler than
the argument that fate is paganish. Although medieval Christians
from Boethius to Dante acknowledged the pagan tradition of the
goddess of fate side by side with the omnipotence of the Trinity,
the Reformation brought with it a conviction that the very idea of
such a figure was an insult to God's sovereignty. God sometimes
works with a grace which nullifies the influence of the heavens,
says Calvin hopefully, and people are often made new by the
Introduction
3
experience of conversion. Just as the Reformation threw out the
'cult' of Mary, it likewise threw out the other numinous feminine
power in the cosmos. And as Cromwell bade us, since the seven-
teenth century we have not spoken of fate.
The theological argument which replaced the ancient goddess
and which is still viable today is the doctrine of God's Providence.
Even Calvin's gloomy children will argue if one calls by the name
of fate the predestined salvation of the elect in which they believe.
Those of a more scientific bent revert to the terminology of 'natural
law'; but the irony of this is that Moira, as she emerged in the
thought of Anaximander and the more 'scientific' Ionian school of
Greek philosophy which Russell favours over those gullible and
mystical Platonists, is nothing more nor less than natural law,
raised to the status of deity .
Moira, it is true, was a moral power; but no one had to pretend
that she was exclusively benevolent, or that she had any respect
for the parochial interests and wishes of mankind. Further- and
this is the most important point - she was not credited with
foresight, purpose, design; these belong to man and the human-
ised gods. Moira is the blind, automatic force which leaves their
subordinate purposes and wills free play within their own
legitimate spheres, but recoils in certain vengeance upon them
the moment that they cross her boundaries .. . She is a represen-
tation which states a truth about the disposition of Nature, and
to the statement of that truth adds nothing except that the
disposition is both necessary and just. 2
Anaximander and his fellows envisioned the universe as
portioned out into a general scheme of allotted provinces or
spheres of power. The word Moira itself means 'share' or 'allot-
ment'. The universe was first a primary and undifferentiated mass;
when the four elements came into being, they received their
'allotment' not from a personified goddess, but from the eternal
motion within the cosmos, which was considered no less divine.
But interpreting natural law as a numen does not appeal to us
today . And when we consider other aspects of natural law such as
heredity and the phylogenesis of disease, we are scarcely prone to
see these processes as anything to do with fate.
It has even become acceptable, in some circles, to speak ofkarma,
while avoiding the word fate. Karma, it would appear, is a nicer
term because it implies a chain of cause and effect, with some
importance given to the individual's choices in a given incarnation.
Fate, on the other hand, seems, in popular conception, to be
random, and the individual possesses no choices at all. But this
was never the philosophical conception of fate, not even in the
4
The Astrology of Fate
eyes of the Stoics, who were as their name suggests exceedingly
stoical about the lack of freedom in the cosmos. Stoicism, the
most fatalistic of philosophies, acknowledged fate as a cause and
effect principle; it merely postulated that we humans are gen-
erally too blind and stupid to see the results implicit in our
actions. According to the Indian formula, man sows his seed and
pays no attention to its growth. It then sprouts and eventually
ripens, and each individual must eat of the fruit of his own field.
This is the law of karma. It is no different from Heimarmene,
which is eloquently described below by Professor Murray:
Heimarmene, in the striking simile of Zeno [the founder of
Stoicism], is like a fine thread running through the whole of
existence - the world, we must remember, was to the Stoics a
live thing - like the invisible thread of life which, in heredity,
passes on from generation to generation of living species and
keeps the type alive; it runs causing, causing forever, both the
infinitesimal and the infinite . .. rather difficult to distinguish
from the Pronoia or Providence, which is the work of God and
indeed the very essence of Cod."
It is not only difficult to distinguish fate from Providence; it is
equally difficult to distinguish it from karma and from natural
law. This situation bears an irresistible similarity to the use of
words like 'copulation', 'fornication' and 'intercourse' in order to
avoid saying you-know-what.
Psychology too has found other, more attractive terminology
when confronting issues of fate. It speaks of hereditary pre-
disposition, conditioning patterns, complexes and archetypes.
All these are useful terms, and no doubt more appropriate for the
twentieth century; I shall use them myself throughout this book,
and it is probably fitting that our view of fate should have
evolved, over three or four millennia, from a personified goddess
to a property of the unconscious psyche. But I am struck over and
over by the repugnance those in the helping professions seem to
feel - in particular the psychiatrist, who ought to be able to see
the connection when he pronounces the prognosis of schizo-
phrenia incurable and declares it to be hereditary - when the
word fate is served up cold upon a plate without sauce or garnish.
It is not surprising that the modem astrologer, who must sup
with fate each time he considers a horoscope, is made uncom-
fortable and attempts to formulate some other way of putting it,
speaking instead, with elegant ambiguity, of potentials and seed
plans and blueprints. Or he may seek refuge in the old Neoplato-
nic argument that while there mJly be a fate represented by the
planets and signs, the spirit of man is free and can make its
Introduction
5
choices regardless. Margaret Hone is a typical voice on the subject:
Synchronisation with a planetary pattern apparently denies free-
will entirely . . . Inasmuch as a man identifies himself with his
physical self and the physical world about him, so he is in-
dissolubly part of it and subject to its changing pattern as formed
by the planets in their orbits. Only by the recognition of that
which he senses as greater than himself can he attune himself to
what is beyond the terrestrial pattern. In this way, though he
may not escape terrestrial happenings, by the doctrine of free
and willing 'acceptance' he can 'will' that his real self is free in its
reaction to them."
Jeff Mayo, on the other hand, appears to belong to the 'blue-
print' school:
You may think that if the future can be foretold we have no
free-will, we are enmeshed in an irrevocable fate we cannot
escape. The astrologer cannot predict every event ... An astro-
logicalaspect with regard to the future can correspond with any
one of a variety of possibilities, mostly dependent upon the
'freedom of choice' of the individual concerned, yet the aspect
still foretells the actual trendof circumstances, or the nature of the
individual's reaction to the situation. 5
These two voices are characteristic of astrology's current reac-
tion to the problem of fate. Either fate is merely a trend, a set of
possibilities, rather than something more definite, or it is indeed
definite but only applies to the corporeal or 'lower' nature of man
and does not contaminate his spirit. One is a pragmatic approach;
the other, a mystical one which can be traced all the way back to
Plato. Both, however, are open to challenge. On the one hand, it
would seem, in my experience, that some very specific events in
life are fated and unavoidable, and can hardly be called a trend or
attributed to the individual's active choice. Some of the case
histories in this book illustrate this rather painfully. On the other
hand, it would seem that the inner lifeof man - the spirit of which
Margaret Hone writes- isas coloured by fate as his outer life, in the
form of unconscious complexes which even influence the nature of
the God he worships, and which shape his choices far more
powerfully than any act of conscious volition. In fact, the concur-
rence of inner complexes and outer circumstances suggests that
the division into 'physical' and 'spiritual' which Hone is making is
an arbitrary one. I do not pretend to have an answer to these
dilemmas, and I would not suggest that either of these two very
accomplished and experienced authors is 'wrong'. But I am left
with the feeling that something is being avoided.
6
The Astrology of Fate
Fate means: it has been written. For something to be written
with such immovability by an utterly unseen hand is a terrifying
thought.
It implies not
only
powerlessness, but the dark
machinery of some vast impersonal Wheel or highly ambiguous
God which takes less account than we would like of our hopes,
dreams, desires, loves, merits or even our sins. Of what value are
the individual's efforts, his moral struggles, his humble acts oflove
and courage, his strivings for the betterment of himself and his
family and his world, ifall is ultimately rendered pointless by what
has already been written? We have been fed, for the last two
centuries, on a highly questionable pabulum of rational self-
determination, and such a vision of fate threatens an experience of
real despair, or a chaotic abreaction where the spinal column of the
moral and ethical man collapses. There is equally a difficulty with
the more mystical approach to fate, for by severing the unity of
body and spirit in order to seek refuge from the strictures of fate,
the individual creates an artificial dissociation from his own
natural law, and may invoke in the outer world what he is avoiding
in the inner.
Yet to the Greek mind, as to the mind of the Renaissance, the
vision of fate did not destroy the dignity of human morality or
human soul. Ifanything, it was the reverse. The first religious poet
of Greece, Hesiod, states simply that the course of Nature is
anything but careless of right and wrong. He implies that there is a
definite and sympathetic connection between human conduct and
the ordered law of Nature. When a sin has been committed - such
as the unconscious incest ofOidipus- all Nature is poisoned by the
offence of man, and Moira retaliates with immediate catastrophe
brought down upon the head of the offender. Fate, to Hesiod, is
the guardian of justice and law, rather than the random predeter-
mining force that dictates a man's every action. This guardian has
set the bounds of the original elemental order, within which man
must live because he is part of Nature; and it waits to exact the
penalty of every transgression. And death, because it is the final
statement of Moira, the 'allotment' or circumscribed limit beyond
which mortal creatures cannot pass, is not an indignity, but a
necessity, issuing from a divine source.
It would appear that since the Reformation we have lost much of
this sense of connection with Nature and natural law; we have
forgotten what we knew of the meaning of fate, and so the
vicissitudes of life, includingdeath, are to us in the West an offence
and a humiliation. When an old person dies, we no longer speak of
'natural causes' or a death due to old age, but rather, written on the
death certificate, 'cardio-respiratory failure', thereby implying
that, had it not been for this failure or mistake, death would never
Introduction
7
have taken place. But I do not think we have lost our fear of fate,
although we mock it; for if the modern individual were so truly
enlightened beyond this 'paganish' concept, he would not surrep-
titiously read astrology columns in the newspaper, nor evidence
the compulsion to ridicule whenever possible the spokesmen of
fate. Nor would he be so fascinated by prophecy, which is fate's
handmaiden. Nostradamus' Centuries, those bizarre visions of the
future of the world, have never been out of print, and each new
translation sells in astronomical figures. As for the ridicule, it is my
feeling that fear, when unadmitted, is often cloaked with
aggressive contempt, and rather stringent attempts to disprove or
denigrate the thing which threatens. Every palmist, astrologer,
card reader and clairvoyant has met this peculiar but unmistakable
onslaught from the 'skeptic'. And it occurs, sadly, not least within
the field of astrology itself. The outlines of this spectre can be
glimpsed
in
the
more
determinedly 'scientific' astrologer's
attempts to prove his study solely through a tidal wave of statistics,
ignoring or refusing to recognise those mysteries which elude his
computations, pleading shamelessly for recognition of his science
(if that is what it is) from an obdurate scientific community, and
ultimately apologising for even calling astrology by its own name,
replacing this with such tongue-twisters as 'cosmobiology' in the
hope that it will render him more respectable. I am not insulting
valid research in pursuit of clarity or truth by this observation, but
am rather calling attention to an attitude of what seems to me
fanatical overcompensation that throws the baby out with the bath
water. The community of modem astrological practitioners often
seem terribly ashamed that they must traffickwith fate.
Astrology, in company with the Tarot, palmistry, scrying, and
perhaps also the IChing which has now firmlyentrenched itself in
the West, are the modem carriers of the ancient and honourable
role of seership. This has been, from time immemorial, the art of
interpreting the clouded and ambiguous intentions of the gods,
although we might now call it the clouded and ambiguous inten-
tions of the unconscious; and it is directed towards the appre-
hension of kairo», the 'right moment'. lung used the term
synchronicity in connection with these things, as a way ofattempt-
ing to shed light on the mystery of meaningful coincidence -
whether it is the coincidence of an apparently unrelated external
event with a dream or inner state, or an event with the pattern of
cards, planets, coins. But whatever language we use, psychologi-
calor mythic, religious or 'scientific', at the heart of divination is
the effort to read what is being, or has been, written, whether we
explain this mystery by the psychological concept of synchronicity
or the much older belief in fate. For the uninitiated layman with no
8
The Astrology of Fate
experience of such things in their enormous multilevelled subtlety,
acquaintance with Moira is limited to predictions in sun sign
columns, and occasional visits to the funny old lady in Neasden
who lives with seventeen cats and was actually right about my
mother's operation. In these expressions our typically concrete
Western interpretations of fate are evidenced in all their schizoid
glory. Either we believe wholeheartedly that next week will indeed
bring the unlooked-for windfall, the new lover, the bad news by
post, the promotion; or, sometimes at the same time, we jeer
cruelly at the friend who is stupid, ignorant, gullible enough to
think he or she could actually get help from that sort of ridiculous
mumbo-jumbo. Novalis' statement that fate and soul are two
names for the same principle is, of course, incomprehensible in the
face of such concretisation. Yet the astrologer, who ought to know
better, may still be found making his concrete pronouncements,
and not only about the new lover and the bad news by post:
zodiacal signs and planetary aspects mea.i behaviour and be-
haviour only from this literal perspective, with not a thought to the
inner 'soul' of which Novalis speaks.
It is not my object to convince the layman of either the mantic
arts or of fate. What concerns me is the approach of the astrological
practitioner. I am not happy with either the 'trend' approach to the
horoscope, or the Neoplatonic 'fate affects the body but not the
soul' approach. For me, the former evades the issue of the myster-
iously meaningful events that provoke individual development,
and the latter evades the issue of individual responsibility. From
what I have observed in my analysands and my astrological
clients, there is certainly something - whether one calls it fate,
Providence, natural law, karma or the unconscious - that retaliates
when its boundaries are transgressed or when it receives no
respect or effort at relationship, and which seems to possess a kind
of 'absolute knowledge' not only of what the individual needs, but
of what he is going to need for his unfolding in life. It appears to
make arrangements of the most particular and astonishing kind,
bringing a person together with another person or an external
situation at precisely the right moment, and it appears to be as
much part of the inner man as the outer. It also appears to be both
psychic and physical, personal and collective, 'higher' and 'lower',
and can wear the mask of Mephistopheles as readily as it can
present itself as God. I make no pretence of knowing what 'it' is,
but I am unashamedly prepared to call it fate. And I feel that if we
understood this thing better we might be of far greater assistance
to our clients, not to mention ourselves.
The purpose of this book, like the Greek Fates themselves, is
threefold. Firstly, it is intended to confront and question the issue
Introduction
9
of fate in some detail. I have no answers to the fundamental
problem of whether we are fated or free; no such conclusion is ever
definitively reached in this exploration. I am inclined, when faced
with such an enormity, to feebly answer, Both. I do not know
what fate is in a defined metaphysical sense, or a theological one;
philosophy and religion concern themselves with this problem in
far more erudite terms than I am capable of. When Apuleius of
Madaura speaks with certainty of dual fate - fate as energy and
fate as substance - or when Chrysippos proposes that even our
thoughts are fated, I am hardly in a position to challenge them.
There have been many attempts to define fate over the centuries,
and sometimes the conclusions differ. I do not know with any
certainty whether it is possible to alter fate, or whether fate itself
alters, or what 'altering' might mean, although I have raised some
questions about just what it is that 'transforms' during processes
such as psychotherapy. Nor do I know whether some people are
more fated than others, although it would certainly seem so on a
literal outer level. But sometimes it is the asking of the question
that opens doors, rather than the determined search for an unam-
biguous answer.
Questions that deal with such bottomless issues as man's
freedom or lack thereof, however, have a tendency, if raken
seriously, to invoke in the questioner a rather uncomfortable
ambivalence. It seems as though it is safer not to ask, but merely to
ignore or mock; for, having asked, one has, in the act of compos-
ing the question, tom the protective skin off a deep and myster-
ious human dilemma and source of suffering. Once conscious of
that dilemma, if no immediate answer is forthcoming, one is
suspended between the opposites like someone hanging on a
cross. This problem translates itself in human terms in a decep-
tively simple question: if one is struck powerfully by impulses or
desires which erupt from the psyche, does one act them out
because they are fated, or does one try to repress or control them?
Or might there be a third possibility, which grants the inevitability
of the experience but also tests the whole man in terms of his
moral choices? This is no easy question, as any psychotherapist
knows, for sometimes an individual cannot help himself, and
sometimes he can; and sometimes he ought not to help himself,
and sometimes he must. This very dilemma in fact permeates the
story of Christ's betrayal and crucifixion. Such a suspension may
deepen and enrich, but it can also paralyse. Deepening and
stretching are not for everyone; otherwise we would probably not,
as a collective, shy away so obviously from the question. Suspen-
sion robs us of certainty, whether it is on the side of morality or
amorality, fate or freedom . And how many of us would dare, like
10
TheAstrologyof Fate
Socrates, to acknowledge the root of all wisdom in the knowledge
that we do not know?
The second purpose of this book is an attempt to understand the
repugnance and even anger which the subject of fate invokes,
particularly in my fellow astrological students and practitioners
and in my fellow analysts. There is no modem profession which
brings an individual closer to the experience of fate than the
practice of the horoscopic art, save that of the psychotherapist. The
discussion of 'blueprints' and 'trends' is valid enough for the
individual whose life has not been violently touched by fate: the
healthy person, physically and psychically, who is 'at a crossroads'
or wants vocational guidance or is·'seeking direction' or wants to
'learn more' about himself. But these are not the only clients who
come for astrological advice. If they were, our work would always
be pleasurable, and never challenge us. Yet there are the people
tormented by some innerdaimon or compulsion, struggling futilely
against what they experience as their own evil; who have been
twisted almost beyond recognition by childhood experiences
which they did not choose; who have been broken open by some
numinous or transpersonal experience which demands a sacrifice
of something they hold most dear; who have been physically
maimed by accident or illness or congenital defect; who have
suffered unjust losses and unearned separations, or have been
caught up in collective horrors like wartime Germany or post-war
Czechoslavakia or Northern Ireland; who have been raped,
robbed, pillaged and used; who have gone, are going or will go
mad because their mad families have elected them as symptom-
bearers and scapegoats. Nor is the gifted individual free of suffer-
ing, for the possession of talents and insights and even what we
call 'luck' marks a man as surely as deformity does, and separates
him from the community into an isolation of the spirit which
equally demands an answer of some kind. I do not find it easy to
come up with specious phrases when facing this catalogue of
apparently unmerited human vicissitudes. I was once told during
a workshop, by a woman with a voice of smug certainty, that
people are never given more than they can bear. A brief visit to a
hospital or a psychiatric ward tends to render this sort of pro-
nouncement nonsensical. Icannot talk glibly about karma as many
astrologers do, and imply that it was something to do with one's
previous incarnations so not to worry, just close your eyes and
think of England; nor can I imply that the individual 'made' these
things happen out of what was merely a 'trend', because he is
personally stupider or more culpable than most. I must admit
honestly that I do not know, and because I do not know I have
engaged in an attempt to understand more deeply the nature of
Introduction
11
whatever 'it' is. As with many people, the presence of extreme
suffering invokes in me the question of meaning. But for me, the
roads of human perversity and catastrophe do not ultimately lead
to the comforting paternal arms of a benign Judaeo-Christian God
whom we must not question; nor do they lead to the indictment of
society as the source of all ills. Rather, they lead to fate.
It is my feeling that all genuine vocations or 'callings' have about
them, shadowy and often unseen, an archetypal or mythic figure,
in itself fascinating and compelling although unconscious, which
in some way is the symbol of the inner meaning or 'rightness' of
that vocation. Or it could be put another way: the human imagin-
ation formulates these figures spontaneously as a means of articu -
lating some
mysterious sacredness or
numinosity about a
particular function in life which the intellect cannot fully com-
prehend. Jung thought that these figures were archetypal images,
perceptions of innate human patterns or ordering processes the
source of which remains a mystery and the experience of which
conveys a sense of the divine. Take, for example, the doctor. We
may know perfectly well that he is fallible, that he has a habit of not
answering his telephone at weekends, that he overcharges (if he is
in private practice), that he too falls ill, that he cannot cure the
incurable. Yet we resonate not to the individual doctor when we
panic over an illness, but to the Shaman, the Priest-Healer, the
lame Asklepios who has received his wisdom from the gods and is
himself a god, and who is holy priest to the desperate cries of both
the body and the soul. It has been suggested by Jung and others
that the Healer is an inner figure, who may be met in dreams and
who embodies that profound mystery of the psyche's and the
body's capacity to heal itself. But we do not think in terms of inner
archetypal figures; we reach for the telephone to get the doctor.
The rather callous playboy recently and barely graduated from
medical school, with a disastrous marriage and neglected children
and a myriad sexual, financial and emotional problems is not the
face we see in the consulting room: but something shining, power-
ful, able to instil hope in the face of hopelessness, offering calm
acceptance even of imminent death.
The more perceptive doctor knows about this Doctor too, and is
well aware that healing, in many instances, depends upon the
inner image being constellated; for if it is not, the patient will not
get better, despite the technical skills and knowledge of the
practitioner. Inner Doctor and outer doctor thus work hand in
hand, although often no one, in particular the doctor and the
patient, is the wiser. If we did not place this divinely, or archety-
pally, inspired trust in our medical practitioners, it is doubtful that
we would ever visit them, save for the broken bones and minor
12
The Astrology of Fate
bruises of everyday life. And the doctor himself? Granted, he may
acquire handsome financial remuneration in America, and in
England if he manages to acquire a Middle Eastern practice in
Harley Street; and he obtains also the status which his credential
offers, and a place in the community, and a sense of security in the
'network' of his colleagues. But the moral as well as the technical
standards of the medical profession are demanding to an excessive
degree, and it is no joy to deal with necrotic tissue and disintegra-
tion and death every day; not to mention what the Prince of Wales,
in his address to the British Medical Association, referred to as 'the
stricken spirit who comes .. . with his sick soul disguised as an
ailment of the body'. What justification can the doctor offer to his
own soul, when he must finally confront it, ifthere were not some
Other glimmering behind his often genuine but frequently insuffi-
cient dedication and desire to help, whether he calls it compassion,
or integrity, or service, or a need to live a meaningful life?
Analytical psychology speaks with justification of the dangers of
identification with an archetype. The doctor is not the Doctor and
is better off remembering this, lest he run the risk of inflation and
even potential psychosis if the divine image overwhelms the
conscious ego's sense of human falIibilityand limitation. But these
archetypal figures, when approached with consciousness and
humility, nevertheless demand an offering from their children. To
eat of godly flesh requires a return, which those who pursue 'jobs'
rather than the inspiration of calling do not have to make. It is
perhaps the sense of this which forms the inner logic of the
Hippocratic oath in medicine. This act of returning something to
the god - the act of recognising something sacred for which one is a
vessel of some kind - differentiates the vocation from the job, or
differentiates the individual's feeling about his job. The ner-
vousness felt in esoteric circles about charging money for horo-
scopes or 'spiritual teaching' is a valid intuition, albeit sometimes
grossly misplaced, that somewhere Someone is owed something.
And what figure stands behind the astrologer, if not fate?
The finished shape of our fate, the line drawn round it. It is the
task the gods allot us, and the share of glory they allow; the
limits we must not pass; and our appointed end. Moira is all
these."
All the scientific knowledge in the world will not erase that
which has been there from the beginning, older than the oldest of
gods. Science too carries a mythic background which exercises
numinous power; otherwise we astrologers would not be so
intimidated by it, nor the scientific community so ready to use the
word as though it were a religious truth any doubt of which
Introduction
13
constituted heresy. And, paradoxically, the mythic backgrounds
of both astrology and science are united in the same figure:
Such genuine religious feeling as is to be found in Homer is less
concerned with the gods of Olympus than with more shadowy
beings such as Fate or Necessity or Destiny, to whom even Zeus
is subject. Fate exercised a great influence on all Greek thought,
and perhaps was one of the sources from which science derived
the belief in natural law.7
The same mythic background indeed, though clothed in a new
gown. Isometimes wonder whetherastrologers, when they can no
longer trust anything but statistics, are not in part merely changing
the Old Harlot's dress to assuage their own insecurities, as weD as
offering valuable contributions to a rational understanding of their
study. Yet deeply disturbing though it may be to confront these
ancient
forms
while
still retaining our twentieth-eentury's
hard-won knowledge of the physical universeand of man's greater
choices within it, nevertheless it is this very conflict which Ibelieve
to be the modem astrologer's fate, if you like: the conflict with
which he must struggle, full of ambivalence yet with Parsifal's
question forever on his lips. Whom do we truly serve? Fate or
freedom? The passively fatalistic astrologer and his opposite, the
self-satisfied rationalist who looks no further than mechanical
cause and effect and talks about 'mastering' the chart, perhaps
miss the point - and, sooner or later, may betray the gods, the
client and themselves.
So, in summary, the second purpose of this exploration is to try
to bring into clearer perspective that figure with which we must
deal, which seems to provoke such ambivalence: the ancient shape
of fate, from which we have become estranged. In order to
facilitate this effort, I have found it useful to draw from a very old
past to trace man's images and stories about fate. Much of this may
seem irrelevant to the modem astrologer. Yet myths, as lung was
at great pains to point out, are the eternal patterns of man's soul.
They are alive and well in our dreams, in our fantasies, in our loves
and hates, in the fabric of our lives; and not least in the more
sensitive astrologer's consulting room, where the practitioner with
any receptivity to the unseen and unspoken psyche may sense
the white-gowned forms of Clotho the Spinner, Lachesis the
Measurer, and Atropos the Cutter hovering dimly over the zodiac-
al wheel.
The third purpose of this book is, in a sense, to conjure; to
invoke. By this I mean that any symbol, astrological or otherwise,
cannot be truly grasped by the intellect alone. There are more
elusive yet equally productive roads by which the 'map of the
14
TheAstrologyof Fate
heavens' might be approached, and I have therefore attempted to
deal with some of our astrological symbols not only conceptuaIly
but also, perhaps more importantly, in the language in which they
are wont to clothe themselves. Hence, to the undoubted frust-
ration of the more pragmatic reader, astrological interpretations
are hopelessly mixed herein with fairy tales, myths, dreams and
other oddities, along with more respectable references from phil-
osophy and psychology. I find it difficult to summarise a sign or
planet with a keyword, and even more difficult to deal with it as a
statistic. How can one measure the places where fate enters a life?
There is case material included, however, to help ground the
flights of fantasy, in hope of demonstrating the workings of fate in
actual people's lives.
I have found that fate is as liquid and elusive a word as love.
Plato thought they were the same; and it is worth noting in passing
that in Old Norse, the word for the fates is identical with the word
for the sexual organs. Novalis wrote that fate and soul are two
names for the same principle. Man's oldest image of fate is the
image of a woman; so let us begin where we may first find her.
PART ONE
Moira
1
Fate and the Feminine
Das Ewig Weibliche zeiht uns inan,
Goethe
She may be met in the old, wild, barren places: heath and treeless
mountaintop, and the mouth of the cave. Not always one, she is
sometimes three, emerging out of mist or clothed in it. Banquo,
stumbling upon the apparition with Macbeth at his side, cries:
Whatare these,
So withered and sowild in their attire,
That look not like th' inhabitants 0' theearth,
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
That man mayquestion? You seem to understand me,
By each at once herchoppy finger laying
Upon herskinny lips: You should be women,
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
Thatyou are so.
. . . You can look into theseeds of time,
And say which grain willgrowand which will not.
The curtain opens upon the first act of Wagner's Gotterdammerung
'amid gloomy silence and stillness', and there, crouched upon the
crag before the cave that is at once the womb and the tomb, the
passage outward into life and downward into death, are the tall
female forms swathed in dark veil-like drapery:
Let us be spinningand singing;
But where, where tie thecord?
Daughters of Nyx the goddess of Night, or Erda the Earth-
mother, they are called Moirai or Erinyes or Noms or Graiai or
Triple-faced Hekate, and they are three in form and aspect: the
three lunar phases. The promising waxing crescent, the fertile full
18
TheAstrologyof Fate
face and the sinister dark of the moon are in mythic image the three
guises of woman: maiden, fruitful wife, old crone. Clotho weaves
the thread, Lachesis measures it, and Atropos cuts it, and the gods
themselves are bound by these three, for they were first out of
inchoate Mother Night, before Zeus and Apollo brought the
revelation of man's eternal and incorruptible spirit out of the sky.
The spindle (of the universe) turns on the knees of Necessity;
and on the upper surface of each circle is a siren, who goes
round with them, hymning a single tone or note. The eight
together form one harmony; and round about, at equal inter-
vals, there is another band, three in number, each sitting upon
her throne: these are the Fates, daughters of Necessity, who are
clothed in white robes and have chaplets upon their heads."
Plato's intricate geometric vision of the cosmos, with Necessity
and the Fates enthroned at the centre governing all, is echoed by
Aeschylos in Prometheus Bound:
Chorus: Who guides the helm, then, of Necessity?
Prometheus: Fates triple-formed, Erinyes unforgetting.
Chorus: Is Zeus, then, weaker in his might than these?
Prometheus: Not even He can escape the thing decreed.9
And the philosopher Heraclitus, in the Cosmic Fragments, declares
with less than his usual ambiguity:
Sun will not overstep his measures; if he does, the Erinyes, the
minions of Justice, will find him out.10
Greek thought, as Russell states, is full of fate. It can, of course,
be argued that these sentiments are the expressions of an archaic
culture or world view which died two thousand years ago, pro-
longed through the medieval epoch because of ignorance of the
natural universe, and that we know better now. In one sense this
is true, but one of the more important and disturbing insights of
depth psychology is the revelation that the mythic and undifferen-
tiated consciousness of our ancestors, which animated the natural
world with images of gods and daimones, does not belong to
chronological history alone. It also belongs to the psyche of
modern man, and represents a stratum which, although layered
over by increasing consciousness and the hyper-rationality of the
last two centuries, is as potent as it was two millennia or even ten
millennia ago. Perhaps it is even more potent because its only voice
now is the neglected dream-world of childhood, and the incubae
and succubae of the night which are better forgotten in the clear
light of morning. We understand, from our much more sophisti-
cated knowledge of the physical universe, that the sun is not a 'he',
Fate andthe Feminine
19
and that it is not the snake-tressed screaming Erinyes who
prevent it from overstepping its measures. At least, the ego
understands: which is to say, that is only one way of looking at
it.
The language of myth is still, as ever, the secret speech of the
inarticulate human soul; and if one has learned to listen to this
speech with the heart, then it is not surprising that Aeschylos
and Plato and Heraclitus are eternal voices and not merely relics
of a bygone and primitive era. Perhaps it is now more than ever
important to hear these poetic visions of the orderly nature of the
universe, because we have grown so dangerously far from them.
The mythic perception of a universe governed by immutable
moral as well as physical law is alive and well in the unconscious,
and so too are the Erinyes, the 'minions of Justice' . Fate, in the
writings of the Greeks, is portrayed in images which are psycho-
logically relevant to us. Fate in the archaic imagination is, of
course, that which writes the irrevocable law of the future: beg-
innings and endings which are the inevitable products of those
beginnings. This implies an orderly pattern of growth, rather
than random caprice or chance. It is only the limits of human
consciousness which prevent us from perceiving the full impli-
cations of a beginning, so that we are unable to foresee the
inescapable end. The second century gnostic text, the Corpus
Hermeiicum, phrases this with beautiful succinctness:
And so these two, Fate and Necessity, are bound to one
another mutually, to inseparable cohesion. The former of
them, Heimarmene, gives birth to the beginning of all things.
Necessity compels the end of all depending from these prin-
ciples. On these does Order follow, that is their warp and
woof, and Time's arrangement for the perfection of all things.
For there is naught without the interblend of Order. It
It is a very .particular kind of fate with which we are dealing
here, and it is not really concerned with predestination in the
ordinary sense. This fate, which the Greeks called Moira, is the
'minion of justice': that which balances or avenges the overstep-
ping of the laws of natural development. This fate punishes the
transgressor of the limits set by Necessity.
The Gods had their provinces by the impersonal appointment
of Lachesis or Moira. The world, in fact, was from very early
times regarded as the kingdom of Destiny and Law. Necessity
and Justice - 'must' and 'ought' - meet together in this primary
notion of Order - a notion which to Greek religious represen-
tation is ultimate and unexplained. 12
20
The Astrology of Fate
In order to grasp the particular flavour of Moira, we must dispense
with the popular conception of preordained events that have
neither rhyme nor reason but which happen to us out of the blue .
The famous 'you will meet a tall dark stranger' formula of the
parlour teacup reader or the newspaper astrology column does not
have very much bearing on the profound sense of a universal
moral order which the Greeks understood as fate. This moral order
is very different from the [udaeo-Christian sense of good and evil,
too, for it does not concern itself with man's petty crimes against
his fellows. To the Greek mind - and, perhaps, to some deep and
forgotten stratum of our own - the worst sin that man could
commit was not any found later in Christianity's catalogue of
deadly vices. It was hubris, a word which suggests something
including arrogance, vitality, nobility, heroic striving, lack of
humility before the gods, and the inevitability of a tragic end .
Before philosophy began, the Greeks had a theory or feeling
about the universe, which may be called religious or ethical.
According to this theory, every person and every thing has his
or its appointed place and appointed function. This does not
depend upon the fiat of Zeus, for Zeus himself is subject to the
same kind of law as governs others. The theory is connected
with the idea of fate or necessity. It applies emphatically to the
heavenly bodies. But where there is vigour, there is a tendency
to overstep just bounds; hence arises strife. Some kind of
impersonal super-Olympian law punishes hubris, and restores
the eternal order which the aggressor sought to violate. 13
When an individual is afflicted with hubris, he has attempted to
overstep the boundaries of the fate set for him (which is, implicitly,
the fate portrayed by the positions of the heavenly bodies at birth,
since the same impersonal law governs both microcosm and
macrocosm). Thus he strives to become godlike; and even the gods
are not permitted transgression of natural law. The core of Greek
tragedy is the dilemma of hubris, which is both man's great gift and
his great crime. For in pitting himself against his fated limits, he
acts out an heroic destiny, yet by the very nature of this heroic
attempt he is doomed by the Erinyes to retribution.
These themes of natural law and the transgression of fate-
imposed limits could, and do, fill volumes of drama, poetry and
fiction, not to mention philosophy. Itwould seem that we curious
human creatures have always been preoccupied with the difficult
question of our role in the cosmos: are we fated, or are we free? Or
are we fated to attempt our freedom, only to fail? Is it better, like
Oidipus or Prometheus, to strive to the utmost limits of which one
is capable even if it invokes a tragic end, or is it wiser to live
Fate and the Feminine
21
moderately, walk with humility before the gods, and die quietly in
one's bed without ever having tasted either the glory or the terror
of that inexcusable transgression? Obviously I could go on for
several thousand pages on this theme, which is what most philo-
sophers do. As I am not a philosopher, I shall instead focus my
attention on the curious fact that the 'minions of justice', in
whatever mythology or poetry one finds them, are always female.
Perhaps one of the reasons why there is an inevitable association
between fate and the feminine is the inexorable experience of our
mortal bodies. The womb that bears us, and the mother upon
whom we first open our eyes, is in the beginning the entire world,
and the sole arbiter of life and death. As a direct psychic experi-
ence, father is at best speculative, but mother is the primary and
most absolute fact of life. Our bodies are at one with our mothers'
bodies during the gestation that precedes any independent indi-
viduality. If we do not remember the intra-uterine state and the
convolutions of the birth passage, our bodies do, and so does the
unconscious psyche. Everything connected with the body there-
fore belongs to the world of the mother - our heredity, our
experiences of physical pain and pleasure, and even our deaths.
Just as we cannot remember that time when we did not exist, a
mere ovum in the ovary of the mother, so we cannot conceive of
the time when we will no longer exist, as though the place of
emergence and the place of return are the same. Myth has always
connected the feminine with the earth, with the flesh, and with the
processes of birth and death. The body in which an individual lives
out his allotted span comes from the body of the mother, and those
characteristics and limitations ingrained in one's physical inher-
itance are experienced as fate: that which has been written in the
hieroglyphs of the genetic code stretching back over aeons. The
physical legacy of the ancestors is the fate of the body, and
although cosmetic surgery may alter the shape of a nose or
straighten a set of teeth, yet we are told that we will inherit our
parents' diseases, their predisposition to longevity or the lack of it,
their allergies, their appetites, their faces and their bones.
So fate is imaged as feminine because fate is experienced in the
body, and the inherent predispositions of the body cannot be
altered regardless of the consciousness that inhabits the flesh - just
as Zeus cannot, ultimately, alter Moira. The instinctual drives of a
species are also the province of Moira, because these too are
inherent in flesh and although they are not unique to one family or
another theyare universal to the human family. It seemsthat we
cannot overstep that in us which is nature, which belongs to the
species - however much we repress it or feed it with culture. In this
sense Freud, despite himself, emerges as one of the great affirmers
22
The Astrology ofFate
of fate as instinct, because he was compelled to acknowledge the
power of the instincts as a shaper of human destiny. The instinct to
procreate, differentiated from what we call love, exists in every
living species, and that it operates as a force of fate may be
observed in the compulsive sexual encounters and their conse-
quences which punctuate virtually every human life. It is no
wonder that the Norsemen equated fate with the genitals. Like-
wise the aggressive instinct exists in us all, and the history of war,
which erupts despite our best intentions, is testimony to the
'fatedness' of that instinct.
The soul too is portrayed as feminine, and Dante's great poetic
edifice to his dead Beatrice stands as one of our most awesome
testimonies of the power of the feminine to lead man out of
mundane life and into the heights and depths of his inner being.
lung has a considerable amount to say about the soul as anima, the
inner feminine which can lead a man both into the torments of hell
and the ecstasies of heaven, igniting the fire of his creative individ-
uallife. Here fate seems to come from within, through the passions
and the imagination and the incurable mystical longing. Whether
an actual woman carries this role for a man in life or not, the soul
will nevertheless drive him towards his fate. This soul sets limits,
too:she will not permit him to flytoo high into the remote realms of
intellect and spirit, but will ensnare him through the body's
passions or even the body's disease. In myth it is the goddesses,
not the gods, who preside over disease and decay - as Kali does
over smallpox - and in the end they restore even the most
spiritualised of men to the dust from whence he came. These
inadequately covered connections are perhaps some of the threads
which link the mythic image of fate with the feminine. However
we wish to understand this triple face of fate, she is imaged as an
eternal presence, spinning the cycles of time, the birth gown, the
nuptial veil, the shroud, the tissues of the body and the stones of
the earth, the wheel of the heavens and the eternal passage of the
planets through the eternal zodiacal round.
We meet the feminine face of fate also in the humble fairy tale of
childhood. The word 'fairy' comes from the Latin tata or tatum,
which in French eventually translated into fee, enchantment. So
fate not only avenges the transgression of natural law; she also
enchants. She spins a spell, weaves a web like the spider who is
one of her most ancient symbols, transforms a prince into a frog
and sends Briar-Rose into a hundred-year sleep.
A long time ago there were a King and Queen who said every
day: 'Ah, if only we had a child!' but they never had one. But it
happened that once when the Queen was bathing, a frog crept
Fate and the Feminine
23
out of the water on to the land, and said to her: 'Your wish shall
be fulfilled; before a year has gone by, you shall have a
daughter.'
What the frog had said came true, and the Queen had a little girl
who was so pretty that the King could not contain himself for
joy, and ordered a great feast. He invited not only his kindred,
friends and acquaintances, but also the Wise Women, in order
that they might be kind and well-disposed toward the child.
There were thirteen of them in his kingdom, but, as he had only
twelve golden plates for them to eat out of, one of them had to be
left at home.
The feast was held with all manner of splendour, and when it
came to an end the Wise Women bestowed their magic gifts
upon the baby: one gave her virtue, another beauty, a third
riches, and so on with everything in the world that one can wish
for.
When eleven of them had made their promises, suddenly the
thirteenth came in. She wished to avenge herself for not having
been invited, and without greeting, or even looking at anyone,
she cried with a loud voice: 'The King's daughter shall in her
fifteenth year prick herself with a spindle, and fall down
dead.'14
Who then are these 'Wise Women' who are gracious and generous
if acknowledged, yet vengeful and merciless if ignored? 'Little
Briar-Rose' is a fairy tale, and therefore a tale about fate. I cannot
resist associating those numbers twelve and thirteen with some
very ancient things, for there are thirteen lunar months in a year
and twelve solar; and the king in this fairy tale, being a king and
not a queen, has opted to set the solar measure above the lunar.
Thus his own problem with the feminine is visited upon" his
daughter in the form of a punishment, and the Erinyes, in the
guise of the thirteenth Wise Woman, claim their retribution.
It seems to be fate, rather than accident, which accomplishes the
strange transformations in fairy tales, and it is a fate which above
all else resents being unrecognised or treated without humility.
Nor is this resentment ever questioned on a moral basis within the
tale. No character in the story ever says, 'But it isn't reasonable or
humanitarian that the wicked fairy put a bad spell on Briar-Rose.'
The spells, enchantments and curses pronounced by the fairies are
part of the life portrayed by the tale; the hero or heroine may seek
to transform or overcome them, but they are never ethically
challenged, for they are not wrong. They are natural, i.e. they are
the reflections of a natural law in operation. One never meets a
24
The Astrology of Fate
wicked male fairy, either; occasionally an evil dwarf may be
encountered, but he is almost always in the service of a witch, as
the Kabiroi once served the Great Mother.
The Grimm Brothers collected their fairy tales primarily from
Western Europe, and from the German-speaking peoples in parti-
cular. The Wise Women who make their appearances in these
stories are close cousins of the Teutonic fates, the Noms, who
dwell beside the spring of destiny beneath the roots of the World-
Tree Yggdrasil, and water it each day to preserve its life. Well into
medieval times, when the old Teutonic gods had been ousted by
the power of the Church, the legend persisted all over north-
western Europe of a group of supernatural women who could
determine the destiny of a newborn child. These were called
Parcae in Latin, and were generally three in number; and it was
even a common custom for women to lay three flaces at table for
them. Sometimes they were called the Noms. 1 The implication
here is that something other than heredity plays a part in the
shaping of a life. It is not mother, but Mother and her emissaries,
who bestow gifts and curses on the newborn child.
So it is a kind of fate, these witches and fairies who give us an
ugly beast who is potentially a gracious prince, or a sleeping
princess concealed by a curtain of thorn bushes who needs time,
and a kiss, to awaken; and we might be permitted to transform
these things only if the magic formula is found to lift the spell. But
the wisdom of fairy tales does not offer sociological reasons for
how things got to be that way in the first place. It was a fairy, it is
our fate. Idries Shah, in his commentary to his collection of World
Tales, writes:
So Fate and magic are always associated in traditional tales; and
the kind of 'fairy' found in modern Western story-books,
, usually for children, is only one form of this concretised Fate.16
The procedures necessary to the overcoming or transformation
of fairy tale spells and curses are highly ritualised affairs. The will
alone can do nothing. Even where cleverness serves as the way
through, it must be cleverness coupled with timing, and with
assistance from strange and often magical sources. Frequently the
help comes from those same dastardly fairies, or their minions,
who cast the spell in the first place. Sometimes it is the heart which
works the transformation, as the love of Beauty does for her Beast;
sometimes it is the passage of time, as is the case with Briar-Rose.
Sometimes the hero must travel hopelessly on a long and weary
journey to the world's end, beset by darkness and despair, to find
the miraculous object which will redeem the kingdom. But the
resolution of the spell or curse depends upon faculties other than
Fate and the Feminine
25
the rational ones, and no resolution can be accomplished without
the secret collusion of the fairies, or the fates, themselves. This
intimates another mystery about our feminine face of fate: While it
may oppose neglect or punish transgression of natural law, yet it
works in the hidden dark towards a relationship with the alien-
ated will of man, before the rift becomes too great and the tragic
end is invoked. The motifs of fairy tales are humbler and seem-
ingly more mundane than the glorious pageants of the world's
great mythic sagas. Yet in some ways they are more relevant to us
because they are more accessible, unpruned and raw and closer to
ordinary life. And they suggest, where myth does not, that a
bridge might be built between man and Moira, ifresj'ect and effort
and the appropriate propitiatory rites are offered.I
Numerous explorers of the untrodden pathways of the psyche
have attempted to understand the curious fact that man, brushing
close to the profound inner compulsions which represent his
necessity, calls his fate by a feminine name and clothes it with a
feminine face. Most important of these explorers is lung, who
wrote at great length in various of the volumes of the Collected
Works about fate as he experienced it in his own lifeand in the lives
of his patients. Sometimes he refers to instinct as compulsive, and
seems to equate it with fate of a biological or natural kind: The
flight of the wild gander is its fate, as is the bursting of the seed
into seedling, sapling, leaf, flower, fruit. So too is the 'instinct' to
individuate, for a man to become himself. Fate, nature and
purpose are here one and the same. My fate is what I am, and
what I am is also why I am and what happens to me.
lung also wrote about the spectrum of instinct and archetype,
the former as the determinant of physical or natural behaviour,
the latter as the determinant of psychic perception and experience.
Or, put another way, the archetypal image - such as the image of
the three Fates themselves - is the psyche's experience or percep-
tion of instinctual patterning, embodied in figures which are
numinous or godlike.
The instincts form very close analogues to the archetypes - so
close, in fact, that there is good reason for supposing that the
archetypes are the unconscious images of the instincts them-
selves; in other words they are patterns of instinctive be-
haviour.l''
Instinct and archetype are therefore two poles of the same dyna-
mism. Instinct is embedded in, or is the living force expressing
through, every movement of every cell in our physical bodies: the
will of nature that governs the orderly and intelligent develop-
ment and perpetuation of life. But the archetype, clothed in its
26
The Astrology of Fate
archetypal image, is the psyche's experience of that instinct, the
living force expressing through every movement of every fantasy
and feeling and flight of the soul. This image that is older than the
oldest of gods, the primordial face of Moira, is the psyche's
perception of the immutable law inherent in life. We are allotted
our share, and no more. lung pressed close to a mystery which the
intellect has great difficulty in containing: the unity of inner and
outer, of body and psyche, of individual and world, of outer event
and inner image . He speaks of the archetype on the one hand as
an inherited mode of functioning, an inborn pattern of behaviour
such as we may observe in all the kingdoms of nature. But it is
something else as well.
This aspect of the archetype is the biological one . . . But the
picture changes at once when looked at from the inside, that is,
from within the realm of the subjective psyche. Here the arche-
type presents itself as numinous, that is, it appears as an
experience of fundamental importance. Whenever it clothes itself
in the appropriate symbols, which is not always the case, it puts
the individual into a state of ~ossessedness, the consequences
of which may be incalculable.
9
It is just these 'incalculable consequences' which appear to enter
life as events fated from without. Here is the crippling illness, the
strangely timed accident, the unexpected success, the compulsive
love affair, the tiny mistake which results in the overturning of a
life's entire structure. Yet it would seem that the source of this
power is not without, or rather, not solely without; Moira also lies
within.
One can read in Jung's work an increasingly formulated connec-
tion between fate and the unconscious.
'My fate' means a daemonic will to precisely that fate - a will not
necessarily coincident with my own (the ego will). When it is
opposed to the ego, it is difficult not to feel a certain 'power' in
it, whether divine or infernal. The man who submits to his fate
calls it the will of God; the man who puts up a hopeless and
exhausting fight is more apt to see the devil in it.2o
The connection is also increasingly drawn between this 'will not
necessarily coincident with my own' and the Self, the central
archetype of 'order' which stands at the core of individual devel-
opment. Fate, nature, matter, world, body and unconscious:
These are the linked threads which are woven on the loom of
Moira, who rules the realm of flesh and substance and the instinc-
tual drives of the unconscious psyche, of which the ego is a
latter-day child.
Fate and the Feminine
27
The Indo-European root mer, mar, means 'to die'. From it also
come Latin mars, Greek moras (fate'), and possibly Moira, the
goddess of fate. The Noms who sit under the world-ash are
well-known personifications of fate, like Clotho, Lachesis and
Atropos. With the Celts the conception of the Fates probably
passed into that of the mattes and matronae, who were con-
sidered divine by the Teutons '"
May it perhaps point back to
the great primordial image of the mother, who was once our
only world and later became the symbol of the whole world?21
On the symbolic representations of the Mother archetype, lung
writes:
All these symbols can have a positive, favourable meaning or a
negative, evil meaning . .. An ambivalent aspect is seen in the
goddesses of fate . . . Evilsymbols are the witch, the dragon (or
any devouring or entwining animal, such as a large fish or
serpent), the grave, the sarcophagus, deep water, death, night-
mares and bogies . . . The place of magic transformation and
rebirth, together with the underworld and its inhabitants, are
presided over by the Mother. On the negative side, the Mother
archetype may connote anything secret, hidden, dark; the
abyss, the world of the dead, anything that devours, seduces
and poisons, that is terrifying and inescapable like fate.22
I have quoted lung at length because Ibelieve these passages are
fundamental to an understanding of the feeling of fatality or
blind compulsiveness which so often accompanies emotional
entanglements and the events those eruptions or affects precipi-
tate. Depression, apathy and illness are also perhaps masks the
Erinyes wear. Needless to say, the relation to one's personal
mother is undoubtedly significantly connected with one's feeling
of choice and inner freedom in adult life, for the bigger and blacker
mother is, the more we fear fate. But mother is also Mother, who
here seems in part to embody the unconscious in its guise of
'origins' or 'womb' or 'unknown depths'. The argument is un-
answerable as to whether man formulates his psychic images of
goddess, serpent, sea, sarcophagus, because of his body's cloudy
memory of the sea of the uterine waters, the serpentine umbilical
cord which gives life yet may strangle, the tomblike darkness and
constriction of the birth canal, the life-giving comfort of the milk-
laden breast; or whether he experiences pleasure or terror, comfort
or compulsion, longing or hatred, and exaggerates a 'merely'
biological experience with godlike images because of the archety-
pal or numinous figure of which the biologicalexperience is merely
one concrete manifestation. This is, of course, the old spirit-matter
28
The Astrology of Fate
problem:Which comes first, the chicken or the egg? Dowe imagine
gods because we must invest meaning into the vagaries and
vicissitudes of physical life, or is physical life experienced as
innately meaningful because there are gods? Of course, I cannot
answer this question. Certainly Iung, in his efforts to formulate
psychologically in these uncharted waters, tried to steer the
middle course: Both are aspects of one reality, and cannot be
separated. If instinct is one end of a spectrum which encompasses
an archetypal or 'spiritual' level as well, then fate is not just the fate
of the body, but of the soul too. The experience of the power and
life-and-death-dealing nature of the personal mother is linked in
the psyche with the numinosity of Moira, divine life-giver and
death-dealer. That is perhaps all we can say: There is a link.
Two other writers are worth perusing on these themes. One is
Johann Jakob Bachofen, a nineteenth-century Swiss jurist and
social philosopher, whose poetic approach to myth is a refreshing
counterpoint to the Concise Oxford Dictionary's overwhelmingly
subtle definition of myth as 'an untrue story'.
Thus the activity of nature, its skilful creation and formation,
were symbolised in spinning, plaiting and weaving; but these
labours were related in still other ways to the work of tellurian
creation. In the weaving of two threads, could be seen the
twofold power of nature, the interpenetration of the two sexual
principles prerequisite to all generation. The sexual was still
more manifest in the working of the loom. This physico-erotic
relation also comprises the idea oftatum and destiny.The thread
of death is woven into the web of which every tellurian
organism consists. Death is the supreme natural law, the tatum
of material life, to which the gods themselves bow, which they
cannot claim to master. Thus the web of tellurian creation
becomes the web of destiny, the thread becomes the carrier of
human fate, Eileithyia, the midwife,
the good spinstress,
becomes the great Moira who is even older than Cronus himself.
The loom, carrier of the supreme law of creation written in the
stars, was assigned to the uranian deities in their sidereal
nature; and finally, that human life and the entire cosmos were
seen as a great web of destiny.2J
Apart from his obsession with the word 'tellurian', Bachofen
really ought not to be paraphrased, so Ihave quoted him at length.
Here in his intricate web of connections we may begin to see where
astrology itself - Heimarmene, the 'planetary compulsion' or
natural law of heaven and earth - is part and parcel of the celestial
body of the Great Mother. This is a creation myth that predates
Yahveh of the Old Testament, for here the original creative power
Fate andtheFeminine
29
in the cosmos is the great goddess Moira. The harmonious ordering
of the celestial spheres is her design, and the awesomeness of this
tremendous image makes gentle mockery of our common concep-
tion of a fate that can be read in the tea-leaves. It is this image which
I feel we touch and invoke when we ponder the horoscopic wheel,
for this ancient image lies in ourselves. Perhaps it is in this way that
the body experiences itself as having an allotted span.The image of
Moira is not wiped away as the rational intellect climbs to its
impressive heights. Archaic though she is, she has simply receded
into the underworld from whence she issued long ago, where the
spinning and weaving continue unrecognised and uninterrupted,
only to emerge into the light of day as an experience of 'my fate'.
I will quote one further passage from Bachofen, because we will
find it relevant later.
In the Ogygian dark depths of the earth they weave all life and
send it upward into the sunlight; and in death everything
returns to them. All life repays its debt to nature, that is, to
matter. Thus the Erinyes, like the earth to which they belong, are
rulers over death as well as life, for both are encompassed by
material , tellurian being ... In their other aspect the friendly
Eumenides are the terrible cruel goddesses, hostile to all earthly
life. In this aspect they delight in catastrophe, blood and death,
in this aspect they are accursed monsters, bloodthirsty and
hideous, whom Zeus 'has ruled outcast'. In this aspect they mete
out to man his merited reward. 24
When the Erinyes enter the stage in the last play of Aeschylos'
Oresteia, they wear this darker face:
Our mission's bloodrighi, we're not sent
ever to harm theinnocent.
Show us yourhands. If they're not red
you'll sleep soundlyin yourbed.
Showus yourhands. Left. Right.
You'll live unhuntedif they're white.
Show us yourhands. There's onewe know
whose hands are red anddaren't show.
With men likehim tohoee hands arered
wearethe bloodgrudge ofthedead.
The she-god oflife-lot gave us these powers,
ours, ours, forever ours.
When wecame into being, theywere marked out, theconfines.
Weand theOlympianshave no intimate contacts.
Food's offered to either but not both together.
We don't wear white robes, theydon't weDr black ones. 25
30
The Astrology of Fate
I have no doubt that we too, in this century, like Zeus, have ruled
them outcast. Since the dawn of the Christian era our gods have
only worn white robes. Yetthese things remain as eternal images
in the depths. I have seen them too often in the dreams of virtually
every analysand with whom I have worked, to believe otherwise.
In Aeschylos' tragedy they torment Orestes into madness for the
slaughter of his mother, although Apollo himself demanded that
slaughter; and Aeschylos gives us a very interesting insight into
the manner in which this retributive aspect of fate, which punishes
the transgressor against natural law, might be observed in modem
man. Even a century after Aeschylos, men no longer believed in
those dreadful ladies with talons for feet and snakes for hair and
vultures' wings and the voices of screech owls. The Western world
left them behind long ago. But a visit to the local psychiatric
hospital can effectively reintroduce us to their current dis-
embodied manifestation. I would suggest that the individual, man
or woman, who transgresses too brutally the natural law of his
own being may perhaps pay the price in what we now choose to
call 'mental illness'. There is nothing fair about this, for such
transgressions are generally made unconsciously, and one cannot
blame the individual for that of which he is ignorant. But the
Erinyes are not fair, either, in the way they deal with Orestes; he
has no choice, and is compelled to commit his murder by the god
Apollo, yet he must pay the price nevertheless. I personally fmd it
sometimes more creative to consider the Erinyes, guardians of
natural law, than to revert to terms which I do not fully under-
stand, such as schizophrenia, but no doubt anyone who pays
attention to the Erinyes today is a schizophrenic. Bethat as it may, I
feel that it is of immense value to consider, when working as an
astrologer, what natural laws are represented by the horoscope,
and in what sphere a 'transgression' is being perpetrated, know-
ingly or unknowingly; and whether and how that transgression
might be redressed, lest the Erinyes hound that individual from
within or from without as a 'bad fate'.
The third writer who has contributed major insights into this
mysterious complex of fate-unconsdous-mother-world is Erich
Neumann. In The Great Mother, he writes:
The life feeling of every ego consdousness that feels small in
relation to the powers is dominated by the preponderance of the
Great Round that encompasses all change. This archetype may
be experienced outwardly as world or nature, or inwardly as fate
and the unconscious . . . Thus the terrible aspect of the Feminine
always includes the uroboric snake woman, the woman with the
phallus, the unity of childbearing and begetting, of life and
Fate and the Feminine
31
death . . . In Greece the Gorgon as Artemis-Hekate is also the
mistress of the night road, of fate, and ofthe world of the dead. 26
We might remember at this point Macbeth's bearded witches,
who are phallic women: the feminine which contains its own
procreative or generative power. These women create and destroy
lifeaccording to their own laws, not those ofa spouse or consort or
king. Mother Night or the goddess Necessity gives birth to the
Moirai and the Erinyes parthenogenically, that is, without the
benefit of male seed. The passage quoted above contains some-
thing I feel to be extremely important for the astrologer toconsider:
that the individual who is most terrified of fate, and is most
threatened by what he experiences as its darker, more destructive
soul- and life-destroying propensities, is the individual in whom
the sense of ego, the sense of 'myself', is weakest. This carries a
certain implication for the student ofastrology himself, for many of
us learn our art for this very reason, and we share this problem
with our clients. An awareness of this shared problem can be
immensely creative, but an unconsciousness of it plays right into
the hands of the Erinyes, and reinforces the fear of fate.
When the Erinyes sing that 'food's offered to either but not both
together', they articulate a common dilemma: Either we live in
terror of fate because we have not yet found any sense of genuine
individuality, or we repudiate the very idea of fate for precisely the
same reason. Thus the astrologer not only colludes with his client;
he colludes with the virulent skeptic as well, who is afraid of the
same thing. Likethe secret identity of the psychiatrist with his mad
patient, the problem of fate binds us not only to those who fear the
retributive aspect of life, but also to those who reject anything but
the autonomy of rational consciousness. Although I am not clear
about the ramifications of this, Isuspect it is part of the reason why
astrology so often falls foul of the collective, why the passionate
accumulation of statistics has become necessary, and why the
individual astrologer so often feels persecuted by 'normal' people.
Now I am not suggesting that a firm sense of personal identity
makes fate go away. I would not be so stupid as to suggest that;
nor, I suppose, would Neumann. But the coming to terms with
'my fate' in a creative, rather than a fear-stricken way, perhaps
rests largely upon the individual's sense of being an individual.
Neumann goes on to write:
The male remains inferior to, and at the mercy of, the Feminine
that confronts him as a power of destiny .. .The symbol ofOdin
hanging on the tree of fate is typical for this phase in which the
king-hero was characterised merely by an acceptance of fate . ..
This fate may appear as a maternal old woman, presiding over
32
The Astrology of Fate
the past and the future; or as a young, fascinating form, as the
soul. 27
The author is at pains to point out that when he refers to the
'masculine ego' he does not mean men, but rather the centre of
consciousness in both men and women, which is 'masculine' in the
sense that it is dynamic, motivated towards differentiation. In
short, it is sunlike in contrast to the diffuse and shadowed lunar
depths of the unconscious. I am quite certain that the sun,
astrologically considered, is a point in the horoscope which is
perhaps more accessible to men in general, because it represents a
masculine motivation which is goal-oriented; but the sun means
the same thing in a woman's horoscope, and is still the symbol of
differentiated ego-consciousness in both sexes. In this sense
Neumann is not in the least concerned with 'sexist' issues, and it
would be absurd to interpret him as such. He is speaking about a
dilemma which both men and women face: the sense of impotence
and powerlessness which we all experience in the face of those
compelling eruptions of the psyche which come upon us like fate.
On the other hand, it is quite irresistible to see implied in this
passage one of the archetypal roots of that terror which so often
creeps into male-female relationships, where the woman seems,
by projection or perhaps in truth, to be the carrier of fate for the
man; who, angry and frightened of 'the powers' over which he has
no control, attempts, like Zeus, to rule her value outcast.
The primordial mystery of weaving and spinning has also been
experienced in projection upon the Great Mother who weaves
the web of life and spins the thread of fate, regardless whether
she appears as one Great Spinstress or, as so frequently, in a
lunar triad . It is not by accident that we speak of the body's
tissues, for the tissue woven by the Feminine in the cosmos and
in the uterus of woman is life and destiny. And astrology, the
study of a destiny governed by the stars, teaches that both begin
at once, at the temporal moment of birth.28
The problem of the frightening power which the ego experiences
as a property of the unconscious is, as I have said, not a sexist
issue. It seems to be a human issue, and I have met as many
women running in fear of their own depths as I have met men
dominated by the same fear. Yet perhaps fear is the beginning of
wisdom, as the Old Testament teaches us, because this fear of the
power of fate is at least an acknowledgement. I am therefore
inclined to question the value of telling a client who has come for a
horoscope reading that a birth chart 'merely' suggests potentials
which he may overcome or master as he chooses. I am not
Fate and the Feminine
33
suggesting that we should regress to an archaic level, where the
ego reverts back to the primitive terror and passive acceptance of
fate which characterises both ancient cultures and the modern
infant. We have struggled for several millennia to be able to do
something more than that. But hubris, in turn, does not eradicate
the archetypal image of fate that dwells in the depths of both the
client's psyche and the astrologer's. Nor will such an attitude spare
the client his fate.
The feminine fate which we have been exploring is, in a sense,
the psychic parallel to the genetic patterns inherited from the
family line . Or, in a broader sense, it is the archetypal image for the
most primitive instincts that coil within us. This is a fate of
allotment, of boundaries or natural limits which cannot be crossed.
It is the circle beyond which the individual may not pass in his
lifetime, despite whatever limitless potentials he may sense in
himself, because generations have built that circle stone by stone.
Fate and heredity therefore belong together, and the family is one
of the great vessels of fate. We shall see more of this later. Moira
when viewed in this light is one of the innate urges within the
psyche, both individual and collective, and her role is to uphold
justice and law in the natural realm of the instincts. Since our basic
urges are represented in astrological symbolism by the planets, it is
reasonable to suppose that the ancient retributive principle of
Moira is portrayed in the horoscope by one of the planets, as well
as by whatever signs and houses are connected with that planet. It
is also reasonable to suppose that, since we have ruled fate outcast
and pretend these days that she does not exist, we would likewise
be ignorant of this dimension of her significator within astrology.
In a sense, we might also consider that the image which presides
over retributive fate is the image of an instinct for setting pro-
scribed boundaries within oneself. Moira is theguardian of mother-
right within the individual, and she is as necessary to the
equilibrium of psyche and body as other, more extroverted and
more transcendant urges.
I have found it very productive, when interpreting astrological
symbols, to be at times unashamedly non-rational, and to work
with the images which such symbols invoke, rather than concep-
tualising or reducing to keywords those ancient and sacred figures
which for so many centuries were perceived and experienced as
gods. We still do not really know what they are. It is more
acceptable now, for the purposes of collective evaluation and
comprehension, to call them drives, or motivations, or archetypal
urges. But I feel that the astrologer, like the analyst, can benefit
from lung's method of amplification to get closer to the essence of
astrology's language. We might go even further and envision the
34
The Astrology of Fate
experience of a planet as an encounter with a deity, a numen, rather
than thinking in terms of motivations or urges. For are these things
not the same? Perhaps it is not always wise to appropriate every-
thing within as though it were 'mine', i.e. the property of the ego.
Our innate urges are ultimately no more subject to dissection and
rational control than Plato's daimones, which are given to each
individual at birth and shape his character for a lifetime. It might be
important to acknowledge, particularly when we are dealing with
such things as fate, that there are aspects to our 'motivations'
which are beyond ourselves, transpersonal, autonomous, even
infernal or divine.
Meeting a planet in a sign and house is like entering a temple and
meeting the manifestation of an unknown god. We may meet that
deity as a concrete 'outer' experience, or viaanother person who is
the mask through which the god's face peeps; through the body;
through an ideology or intellectual vision; through creative work;
as a compelling emotion. Often several of these are experienced
together, and it becomes difficult to see the unity between what is
happening in life outside and what is happening within. Never-
theless, the planet bridges the abyss between 'outer' and 'inner'
and provides us with our meaningful connection, for the gods live
in both worlds at once. To meet the personification of all that we
have so far explored, distilled into the image of Moira, is to meet
that which is compulsive and primordial. It is a confrontation with
death and dismemberment, for Moira breaks the pride and will of
the ego into little pieces. Because she is unchangeable, we oursel-
ves are changed. She is stronger than the ego's desires and
determination, stronger than the intellect's reason, stronger than
duty and principles and good intentions; stronger even than one's
faith. Plato envisioned her enthroned at the centre of the universe,
with the cosmic spindle laid across her knees and her daughters,
who are differentiated reflections of her own face, guarding the
limits of natural law and punishing the transgressor with deep
suffering. Moira's wisdom is to be found in despair and depress-
ion, powerlessness and death. Her secret is the thing which guides
and supports the individual when he can no longer support
himself, and which holds him fast to his own unique pattern of
development.
The innate urge to go below appearances to the 'invisible
connection' and hidden constitution leads to the world interior
to whatever is given. The autochthonous urge of the psyche, its
native desire to understand psychologically, would seem akin to
what Freud calls the death drive and what Plato presented as the
desire for Hades . .. It works through destruction, the dissolv-
Fate and the Feminine
35
ing, decomposing, detaching and disintegrating processes
necessary both to alchemical psychologising and to modem
psychoanalysing.:"
This description by James Hillman suggests that the thing which
guards the circumscribed boundaries of nature also seeks know-
ledge of its own spinning: my fate seeking unfoldment of itself.
This goddess of fate as 'minion of justice' is, it seems to me, most
emphatically represented in astrology's
planetary pantheon.
Within the horoscope, I would say that what the Greeks knew as
the Erinyes, the retributive face of Moira, we would call Pluto.
2
Fate and Pluto
Hades, death-god holds assize
on a man's deeds when hedies
death-god Hades won't forget
thedeed ofblood and the blood-debt.
Aeschylos
If we wish to approach astrological symbols through amplification
with other images and symbols rather than through concrete
definition, then it is now in order to look at myth's offerings on the
subject of Hades-Pluto, and on the theme of underworld rulers in
general. The Greek lord of the underworld was originally known
as Hades; the epithet 'Pluto', which means 'riches', is a later
appellation which the Romans then used to describe him. James
Hillman is illuminating about this change of names:
Pluto, especially, is important to recognise in our euphemistic
references to the unconscious as the giver of wholeness, a
storehouse of abundant riches, a place not offixation in torment,
but a place, if propitiated rightly, that offers fertile plenty.
Euphemism is a way of covering anxiety. In antiquity, Pluto
('riches') was said as a euphemistic name to cover the frighten-
ing depths of Hades.P"
In much the same spirit, the Erinyes, the terrible avengers of the
Mother, were called Eumenides, 'the kindly ladies'.
We astrologers also use euphemisms. 'Transformation' is a reso-
nant word, redolent of numinosity and deep psychic purpose, and
most encouraging to the client who has an approaching transit or
progresssion involving Pluto. But it is, unfortunately, the sort of
word which we like to call upon when the meaning of a planet is
vague or merely intellectual, or when the experience foresha-
dowed in the horoscope augurs crisis and suffering for the client. It
Fate and Pluto
37
is not at all easy to watch another person undergoing necessary
suffering. For one thing, our compassion cries out that it should
not be necessary, for our feeling values are not often in sympathy
with Pluto's ruthless law . For another, we see ourselves mirrored
in that other's incipient disintegration or loss. Pluto is particularly
difficult to work with unless one has some trust in fate; but how
can one trust it, unless one has spent time in despair, darkness,
rage and powerlessness, and has found out what supports life
when the ego can no longer make its accustomed choices? I have
never found anything cheerful or funny about the transits and
progressions of Pluto, no matter how psychologically know-
ledgeable the client is. Insight cannot spare suffering, although it
can prevent blind suffering. Obviously a great deal depends upon
the depth of the individual, and also on the condition of Pluto in
the birth horoscope. Ifthere is no insight, the transit or progression
might hopefully pass without too much fuss registering on
consciousness, if the person is sufficiently obtuse. Often there is a
great release of energy which accompanies the movements of
Pluto: things which have lain long dormant or died early in life are
resuscitated and burst forth. Often it is the passions that form this
eruption, and such a release of life can be immensely creative. But
this kind of experience, although hindsight perceives its value, is
frequently
painful,
frustrating,
confusing,
disorienting and
frightening, and rarely passes without some kind of sacrifice or
loss. willing or unwilling. or some kind of confrontation with what
is most brutal and 'unfair' in life. Even the stout-hearted Scorpionic
types, who are ruled by Pluto and therefore have some innate
inkling of the goddess Necessity and the inevitability of endings
and beginnings built upon the corpses of dismembered pasts, are
not immune to the natural ego fear of that which is overpowering
and cannot be placated by will or reason. Death and passion leave
irrevocable changes in their wake, whether on a corporeal or a
psychic level, and what has died cannot be put back again.
Sometimes it may appear that the decree of fate allots some
positive good to men; but from the totality of its functions there
can be no doubt that its character is not positive but negative. It
sets a boundary to limit duration, catastrophe to limit pros-
perity, death to limit life. Catastrophe, cessation, limitation, all
forms of 'so far and no farther', are forms of death. And death is
itself the prime meaning of fate. Whenever the name of Moira is
uttered, one's first thought is of death, and it is in the inevitabi-
lity of death that the idea of Moira is doubtless rooted.31
Although one may know that life will return again invigorated in
a new form, richer and more vital, still the thing which has reached
38
The Astrology of Fate
its appointed end suffers in the dying, and will not itself ever
return to life. Anguish, fear and deep grief often accompany these
deaths, and whatever 'part' of us undergoes such a transition, we
experience it inwardly as the whole of us if we are conscious of it at
all, identifying with it and its suffering: the inevitable accom-
paniment of any deep change in the psyche. The mind speaks
encouragingly of transformation and renewal, yet something still
asks: What if there is no renewal? How can I believe hopefully in
something which Icannot see and do not understand? What have I
done to earn such a fate: where does my fault lie?What if the blank
emptiness simply goes on and on? Any experience of deep
depression carries with it the firm sense that nothing will ever
change.It mighttherefore beappropriate, along with the encourag-
ing statements of future potential inherent in movements of Pluto,
for us to recognise also the mark of an initiation into the irrevocable,
and a need for genuine reverencing of depression and despair.
Empathy and respect for another's process of dying, literal or
metaphorical, is a necessity with Pluto, although this is not usually
the gift of the more Uranian astrological counsellor. Death makes
everyone uncomfortable; even with the medical profession the
business of telling someone, or his family, that he is dying is a
fraught affair, and it is not surprising that many doctors cannot
cope very well with such a confrontation. This is no less the case on
an inner level, for the odour of internal death touches off one's
own fears.
Myth tells us that Hades is the lord of depths, the god of
invisibles. He is brother to Zeus, therefore ranking equally with
the ruler of heaven. He is the dark but equally potent twin of the
all-merciful sky-father. In fact he has the greater status, since his
law is unchangeable while that of Zeus can be gainsaid. Hades was
given virtually no altars or temples where he might be worship-
ped; one simply recognised that death is everywhere in life, and
each living thing contains within its mortal body its own altar, its
own inevitable seed of death that is born simultaneously with
physical life. Hades cannot be seen by men in the upper world, for
he wears a helmet which renders him invisible. This is the hidden
connection, the secret fate, the 'world interior to what is given'. We
cannot perceive Hades, but he is everywhere at all times, inherent
in the beginning of every thought, feeling, inspiration, relation-
ship or creative act, as its preordained and inevitable end.
The male figure of Hades as underworld lord is a relatively late
formulation. The primordial chaos from which life emerges and to
which it returns belonged in the beginning to the Great Mother, or
the goddess Nyx. All the denizens of the depths - Doom, Old Age,
Death, Murder, Incontinence, Sleep, Dreams, Discord, Nemesis,
Fate and Pluto
39
the Erinyes and the Moirai, the Gorgons and the Lamia - spring
from her womb. Another of her faces, ancient triple-headed
Hekate, goddess of fate, magic, childbirth, witchcraft and the
eternal round of the fluctuating moon, is overthrown by a more
patriarchal culture and remains only in the figure of Cerberus,
the tricephalic dog who guards the further shore of Styx. The
earliest images of the goddess are those of a phaJlic Mother, a
self-fertilising deity who bears the Moirai without male seed. In
the end this goddess vanishes into her own depths, and the
phallic power is represented as a male deity: Hades. Although he
is a god, he is the dark son, servant and executor of the unseen
Mother. In Sumerian myth, which predates classical Greek myth
by many centuries, it is the great goddess Ereshkigal who rules
the realm of the dead. Her name means 'Lady of the Great Place
Below', and it is her image above all which I feel can help us to
amplify the planet Pluto in order to better understand it. Ereshki-
gal has male gatekeepers and minions, and a male vizier called
Namtar whose name means 'fate'; but these are her servants,
who do her bidding.
For the following material on Ereshkigal I am indebted to
Sylvia Brinton Perera's book, Descent to the Goddess, which offers
a good deal of fascinating insight into this archaic goddess of the
underworld. This material is relevant enough to confirm my
feeling that in the astrological Pluto we are confronting some-
thing feminine, primordial and matriarchal. When the goddess
Inanna, the Sumerian Queen of Heaven (the early form of lshtar,
Aphrodite and Venus), descends into her sister Ereshkigal's
realm, the Lady of the Great Place Below treats her bright and
beautiful sibling according to the accepted laws and rites for
anyone entering that kingdom: Inanna is brought 'naked and
bowed low', while pieces of her clothing and regalia are ritually
stripped at each of the underworld's seven gates. That rite of
entry is a process I have observed on many occasions concurrent
with the transits and progressions of Pluto - the gradual loss of
everything which one has previously used to define one's
identity, and the 'bowing low' of humiliation, humility and even-
tual acceptance of something greater and more powerful than
oneself. Ms Perera writes from her experience as a Jungian
analyst, focusing on the initiatory journey of women who have
suffered a dissociation from their own feminine centre. I am
writing here also from my experience as an analyst, and likewise
from my experience as an astrologer; and I have observed that
this descent, with its loss of landmarks and props and attach-
ments, seems to occur in both men and women under the tran-
sits and progressions of Pluto.
40
The Astrology of Fate
There is much of the Gorgon and the BlackDemeter about her:
in her power and terror, the leeches on her head, her terrible
life-freezing eyes, and her intimate connection to nonbeing and
to fate ... Ereshkigal's domain, when we are in it, seems
unbounded, irrational, primordial, and totally uncaring, even
destructive of the individual. It contains an energy we begin to
know through the study of black holes and the disintegra-
tion of elements, as well as through the processes of fermen-
tation, cancer, decay, and lower brain activities that regulate
peristalsis, menstruation, pregnancy and other forms of bodily
life to which we must submit. It is the destructive-transforma-
tive side of the cosmic will. Ereshkigal is like Kali, who through
time and suffering 'pitilessly grinds down all distinctions in her
indiscriminating fires' - and yet heaves forth new life . . .
Unreverenced, Ereshkigal's forces are felt as depression and an
abysmal agony of helplessness and futility - unacceptable desire
and transformative-destructive energy, unacceptable auto-
nomy (the need for separateness and self-assertion) split off,
turned in, and devouring the individual's sense of willed
potency and value. 32
I cannot think of any better description than this of the feeling-
tone of Pluto.
I would now like to return to Hades, the rampant phallus of the
Mother. Whenever myth portrays his entry into the upper world,
he is shown persistently acting out one scenario: rape. This sug-
gests something further about the experience of our planet Pluto.
Its intrusion into consciousness feels like a violation, and we, like
Persephone, the maiden of the myth, are powerless to resist.
Where Pluto is encountered, there is often a sense of violent
penetration, unwished for yet unavoidable, and in some way
necessary to the balance and development of the individual -
although one might not see it that way at the time. Ereshkigal, too,
is a rapist of a kind to those whose faces are turned against her:
To matriarchal consciousness she represents the continuum in
which
different states are
simply experienced
as
trans-
formations of one energy. To the patriarchy death becomes a
rape of life, a violence to 'Je feared and controlled as much as
possible with distance and moral order. 33
The myth of Persephone's rape is also a relevant one in terms of
understanding Pluto, for it is her virginal innocence which draws
the desire of the dark lord of the underworld. Persephone is a
springtime goddess, the not-yet-violated face of her mother
Demeter, mistress of the harvest. She is the archetypal maiden, the
Fate and Pluto
41
fertile ground not yet sowed with seed; her emblem is the waxing
crescent of the moon, which promises future fulfilment yet who is
eternally in a state of potential. She is bound to her earth-goddess
mother, to the five senses and the world of form. She also reflects
the bright surface of lifethat promises future joys through the eyes
of uncontaminated youth. Thus she isan image ofa particular kind
of human perception and outlook, full of possibilities but still
unformed.
The unimpeachable bond between this pair of mother and
daughter goddesses suggests something of the divine unity
between mother and infant, the wonderfully innocent and pro-
tected world of babyhood where there is as yet no separation, no
aloneness, no conflict and no fear. This is the world before the Fall,
before the cord is cut, and there is no death because there is not yet
individual life. Parts ofus may remain in this uroboricembrace well
into later life, for Persephone is not just an image of chronological
youth, nor of literal maidenhood. As we become increasingly
sophisticated in external knowledge and accomplishments, so we
increasingly forget those rites and rituals which facilitate the
separation of the youth from the mother at puberty.The wisdom of
the primitive tribe with its elaborate ceremonies to announce the
advent of adult life and responsibility has been lost to us in the
West for a long time. So we remain, ageing Persephones hopefully
picking flowers, until some critical transit or progression of Pluto
comes along. Persephone, although her name - oddly - means
'bringer of destruction', is untouched by life. Her abduction is
cruel, yet governed by necessity; and she herself secretly invokes
it, by picking the strange death-flower which Hades has planted in
the meadow for her fascination . It is the plucking of the flower
which heralds the opening of the earth beneath her and the arrival
of the dark lord in his chariot drawn by black horses.
The issue of the flower seems such a small thing, yet I believe the
process of Pluto works in this way. One can see, in retrospect, the
small thing by which the gates are opened. Persephone colludes
with her fate, even in her voluntary eating of the pomegranate, the
fruit of the underworld, which is a symbol of fertility because of its
multitude of seeds. She is an image of that aspect of the individual
which, however terrified, still seeks the union which is a rape and
an annihilation. In the Orphic mysteries Persephone bears her lord
a child in the underworld, just as Ereshkigal in the Sumerian myth
bears a child after she has destroyed her sister Inanna and hung
her, dead and rotting, on a peg. Persephone's child is Dionysos,
the underworld counterpart to the bright redeemer from heaven
whom Christianity has formulated in the figure of Jesus Christ.
Both are born of virgins, by divine fathers. But Dionysos, who
42
The Astrology of Fate
redeems through the ecstasy of eroticism, is a much more ambigu-
ous child. It seems that the myth expresses something about the
fertility of any encounter with Pluto; it is full of fruit. An enriched
sense of the vitality and sensuality of the body is certainly one
frequent facet of Pluto's fruit. There may also be other children
who spring from this experience of ravishment: a new outlook
which is deeperand broader, a new discovery of inner resources, a
more profound sense of one's own purpose and autonomy. All
these things must be paid for, through the rupturing of the psychic
hymen which protects us through our innocence.
These are frightening depths indeed. It is not surprising that we
use euphemisms, nor is itsurprising that Scorpio, Pluto's sign, has
always had such a dubious reputation. It can be somewhat tricky
finding the right wording for the client, let alone for oneself, as
Pluto slowly moves towards a lengthy conjunction of sun, moon,
ascendant, Venus, indicating that the halls of Hades will be
thrown open to receive the unwilling guest at his own unconscious
request.
Next, there is the question of what is down there. Myth offers a
remarkably precise geographical portrait of the Great Place Below.
Ereshkigal's realm possesses seven gates, and a peg upon which to
hang the visitor. Landscapes such as these are inner landscapes.
They belong to a 'place' to which we 'go' VUl moods, feelings,
dreamsand fantasies. We might first consider the entrances.These
are usually caves and fissures, cracks in the earth and the mouths
of volcanoes. Through the holes and fissures of consciousness,
through one's uncontrollable emotional eruptions and anxieties
and compulsive fantasies and phobias where the ego is swamped
by something 'other', one tumbles down, increasingly denuded of
pretences at each gate. This is known in the analytic world as
abGissement du nivetlu mental, the lowering of the threshold of
consciousness which occurs through dreams, fantasies, delirium,
affect, even slips of the tongue and inexplicable omissions and
amnesia. Pluto's favourite entrances, I believe, are the volcanoes,
where some apparently insignificant event triggers a great gush of
alien and often terrifying rage, jealousy, hatred, fear or mur-
derousness, that reveals that we are not quite so civilised as we
seem. The untamed creature which bursts forth is, like Ereshkigal,
full of vindictive spite over wounds we did not even know we had.
The volcano is often located wherever Pluto is found in the
horoscope.
The Greeks, like the Sumerians, envisioned an elaborate rite of
entry into the underworld; but their mythic scenario is different.
The souls of the dead must cross the river Styx, ferried by the
ancient boatman Charon who demands his coin in exchange.
Fate and Pluto
43
Here, as at Ereshkigal's gates, something must be given, some-
thing of value that is one's own possession. Money is one of our
images of value, worth, ego-identity and ego-property. That
which we hoard, it seems, must be given away during the descent
- the regalia and clothing with which we define ourselves and our
accustomed sense of worth, our unimpeachable self-esteem, our
high price. The feeling of worthlessness, of falseness and disgust
at one's own emptiness, of disillusionment at the vacuity of the
trappings which used to mean so much, is something I have heard
repeatedly expressed by those undergoing Pluto transits and
progressions. This is not limited to the so-called 'bad' aspects, but
applies to the trines and sextiles as well. It would seem that
acceptance of this sense of being stripped and humbled and empty
is a necessary prerequisite for the acolyte at the gates.
Following is given the dream of a man who came fora horoscope
reading while transiting Pluto was making a long conjunction with
his natal sun in Libra placed in the tenth house. He was a
successful publisher of scientific textbooks, with an international
company which provided him with a considerable income and a
respected place in society. With this persona he had always
identified, for it gave him his sense of achievement and import-
ance. That it also provided him with a means of fulfilling his
mother's dream of a successful and brilliant son had not yet
occurred to him as a primary motive in his choice of career,
although many astrologers might view with suspicion the unity of
identity between mother and child which the tenth house sun
suggests. He told me of his dream during the course of the chart
interpretation, because I had referred to some of the images and
feelings connected with Pluto that I have mentioned above: death,
deadness, depression, isolation and entombment.
I dream that I have died and am now awaiting some kind of
rebirth or resurrection. Instead of a head, there is a fleshless
skull between my shoulders. It is horrible to feel this skull. I am
dead, rotten, unacceptable. In a room to the right, all the books
and journals I have published are displayed like trophies in
glass-topped cases. Some friends come to invite me to dinner,
but they are appalled by the sight of my skull. Itry to explain that
I am dead but that another life awaits me. But they only show
disgust and leave me alone. In another room my funeral is in
progress. My mother is weeping wildly over my coffin. She
cannot see me, or the part of me that remains. For her I am
totally dead.
This dream does not really require interpretation. It describes
itself quite adequately as an inner image of the experience of Pluto
44
The Astrology of Fate
and as a profound comment on the meaning of this period in my
client's life. Although he found the dream uncomfortable and
disturbing, nevertheless he said that it had left him with a sense of
hope during a period of great depression and despair. In short, the
dream conveyed to him - and he was not undergoing any form of
psychotherapy, but gleaned the insights himself- a feeling that his
depression was necessary in some way which he could not fathom.
The image of the skull is not merely an image of death; it appears
with great frequency in alchemical symbolism and is that part of
the human being which does not decay as the body does. It is the
caput mortuum, the dead head which is left after the purifying fire
has burned away the dross. In his external life, the situation which
seemed to be triggering my client's depression was his decision to
sell his company and put his energy into farming a large tract of
land which he had bought in Australia. He had expected to be
joyous and enthusiastic about this venture, but became depressed
and anxious instead. This unwelcome mood, which came upon
him like a rape, made no sense until he began to understand that
such a decision meant the death of the power of the mother in his
life, with all the inner implications such a separation entails.
When ghosts descend to Tartaros, the main entrance to which
lies in a grove of black poplars beside the Ocean stream, each is
supplied by pious relatives with a coin laid under the tongue of
its corpse. They are thus able to pay Charon, the miser who
ferries them in a crazy boat across the Styx. This hateful river
bounds Tartaros on the western side, and has for its tributaries
Acheron, Phlegethon, Cocytus, Aornis and Lethe . .. A three-
headed or, some say, fifty-headed dog named Cerberus, guards
the opposite shore of Styx, ready to devour living intruders or
ghostly Iugitives.P'
Blackpoplars, as Robert Graves points out in a later passage, are
sacred to the death goddess.The names of these underworld rivers
are evocative and also explicit:Styx, which means 'hated', contains
waters which are deadly poison, yet which can also confer immor-
tality; Acheron means 'stream of woe'; Cocytus means 'wailing';
Aornis means 'birdless', Lethe 'forgetfulness', and Phlegethon
'burning'. All these images are redolent of the feeling of the
astrological Pluto.
The poison of Styx is like the acid of deep-buried resentment,
which is a typically Plutonian manifestation. This unforgiving
bitterness connects us with the figures of the unforgiving Erinyes,
the minions of justice. There is certainly a poison of vengeance in
Pluto, the raving ghost of Klytaemnestra who whips the Erinyes
into pursuit of her son Orestes. No compassion is here, and no
Fate andPluto
45
healing; only black, unending hate. We know from our traditional
astrological texts that Scorpios are good haters, and do not forget
slights and injuries. Nor does Pluto. The experience of the planet
often plunges an individual into his own previously unrecognised
potential for deep, abiding, unrelenting hatred. Moira as nature
does not forget an insult, nor ignore violation . The spirit of the
Christian myth, with its figure of mercy and compassion, is the
direct antithesis of Ereshkigal, who is the black heart of nature
who cannot forget her suffering. Tolkien embodies this poisonous
heart of nature in the figure of Old Man Willow in The Lord of the
Rings:
Tom's words laid bare the hearts of trees and their thoughts,
which were often dark and strange, and filled with a hatred of
things that go free upon the earth, gnawing, biting, breaking,
hacking, burning: destroyers and usurpers . .. But none were
more dangerous than the Great Willow: his heart was rotten,
but his strength was green; and he was cunning, and a master of
winds, and his song and thought ran through the woods on
both sides of the river. His grey thirsty spirit drew power out of
the earth and spread like fine root-threads in the ground, and
invisible twig-fingers in the air, till it had under its dominion
nearly all the trees of the Forest from the Hedge to the Downs.P
The river of hatred and poison that encircles the underworld is like
Old Man Willow at the heart of the forest, and it is not always
conscious in the individual. More often we do not know of its
existence, and think of ourselves as decent people who can forgive
another his transgression; but we suffer instead from mysterious
ailments and emotional disturbances, and subtly sabotage our
partners, parents, friends, children and ourselves without fully
recognising that somewhere we may feel them as 'destroyers and
usurpers' who must be made to pay.
Perhaps here too a ritual is appropriate, and myth certainly
offers us one. Ereshkigal's hatred is softened by Enki's mourners,
two small creatures that the fire god Enki fashions out of dirt from
beneath his fingernails. These little mourners descend to the
underworld and mourn alongside Ereshkigal while she suffers
and vents spite. They recognise her grief, listen to it, empathise;
they do not judge her, nor call her ugly or wicked or hateful, nor
try to get her to 'do' anything about it. They represent a quality
which I feel to be essential in dealing with Pluto, which many
psychotherapists call an ability to 'be with' someone. It is the
providing of a conta iner for the poisonous waters without the
necessity of 'changing' things. The Erinyes too are placated, in the
myth of Orestes, by this same gentle recognition. Athene listens to
46
The Astrology of Fate
them, does not argue or condemn, but offers them an altar and
honourable worship in exchange for Orestes' life.
The discovery of one's own poisonousness is one of the less
attractive aspects of a confrontation with Pluto. Enki's mourners,
and Athene, provide us with a mythic model of a kind of self-
recognition that steers between harsh self-judgment and sodden
self-pity. This entails a recognition of the necessity or inevitability
of hate, through empathy with the injured thing. From Ereshki-
gal's point of view, life is thoroughly rotten. She has been raped
and thrown outcast into the underworld, and everyone, particu-
larly her free and joyous sister Inanna, must suffer for it. The little
mourners neither agree nor disagree, neither do they blame nor
rationalise. They simply listen, and accept her grief and bitterness.
Pluto's rage, when it erupts from within or approaches from
without, is terrifying, perhaps more so when it is encountered
within because one becomes afraid of destroying those things one
loves. For this reason the rage is repressed, and gnaws away in the
underworld of the psyche. The mourners in the Sumerian myth
offer an alternative both to repression and to the acting out of spite
in externally destructive ways which ultimately do not heal the
wound. To put oneself in the stance of the mourners is more
diffficult than it seems, however, for even ifone is able to face this
vindictive and destructive instinct in oneself, it is irresistible to try
to 'transform' it. The ego is fond of wanting to change everything
it finds in the psyche according to its own values and standards,
and Pluto's poison provokes a predictable response: Now that I
have seen my ugliness, I find it despicable, and must cure it. But
Enki's mourners are not concerned with curing Ereshkigal. They
can see both sides of the issue: the necessity of rescuing Inanna,
and the legitimacy of Ereshkigal's rage. The fire god Enki, who
fashions these creatures, is the Sumerian counterpart to Loge in
Teutonic myth and Hermes in Greek. He is on no one's side, but
has the scope to see the entire pattern, and can love all the
protagonists because they are part of the grand theatre. I feel that it
is questionable whether Ereshkigal is truly 'curable' anyway.
Certainly she is not likely to respond to the demands of the ego,
but only when she herself wishes it, if she ever does at all.
Lethe is the river of blessed forgetfulness, in which the souls of
the dead are submerged before they return to the world for another
incarnation. Those who believe in reincarnation as a concrete
philosophy may take this as the blessing of Pluto: that we merci-
fully do not remember our fates when we are born. Or we may take
it more symbolically; Not only do we mercifully forget what has
been written for us at birth, but we also do not remember very well
what it was like down in the Great Place Below when a Pluto
Fate and Pluto
47
experience has passed. Having managed to emerge from the
underworld, like Orpheus we are commanded by some inner voice
not to look back, and when the transit or progression is over we
cheerfully announce how very productive, enriching, and growth-
inspiring it all was. We do not recall this place, for if we did, we
would lose our courage for the future and the next turn of the Great
Round. Lethe is the gift of Pluto; it isan image of psychic resilience,
and the capacity to forget pain. It is not that Pluto does not offer
riches. I think it is that we, of necessity, must forget later the price
we paid for them, lest we be poisoned by Styx and never forgive
life. I have also found that experiences of Pluto often coincide with
a remembering of what has been forgotten, a rediscovery of grief
and rage and hatred that has been numbed and driven under-
ground by the ego for the sake of its survival.
The psychotherapist is familiar with the miasma of hatred and
injured rage, both of parents and of self, which erupts when the
unconscious abuses, rejections and humiliations of childhood
emerge into the light of day. Where Pluto is found in the horo-
scope, there is often a forgetting, a necessary repression, and a
liability to sudden recollection and the volcanic eruption of poison
on an object who may be no more than a catalyst. There seems to be
a relationship between Pluto and what Freud meant by repression
(which is not performed purposively by a determined act of
consciousness, but occurs as an instinct of survival, through a kind
of unconscious censorship). These are the things which we must
forget for a time, in order to live.
There are 'repressed' wishes in the mind . . . In saying that there
are such wishes I am not making a historical statement to the
effect that they once existed and were later abolished. The theory
of repression, which is essential to the study of the psychoneu-
roses, asserts that these repressed wishes still exist - though
there is a simultaneous inhibition that holds them down.P"
One may make some educated guesses as to the nature of the
repressed 'wishes' of Pluto, as well as the very good reasons for the
'simultaneous inhibition' which blocks their entry into conscious
life. Freud, who had Scorpio on the ascendant, formulated them
very well in his concept of the id.They are too violent, too vengeful,
too bloodthirsty, too primitive and too hot for the average individ-
ual to feel much comfort or safety in their intrusion. Along with
'wishes'
may
be
included
memories,
experiences of great
emotional intensity whichare forgotten along with their objects.
Thus large slices ofchildhood fallbenea th the censor's knife - those
slices which reveal the savage face of the young animal struggling
for self-gratification and survival.
48
The Astrology of Fate
Along with the poison, potentials too can be repressed, lest
invoking the one might unleash the other. The child who is
subjected to mother's possessive rage or father's freezing disinter-
est each time he sits down to play with clay or paint, and commits
the outrage of withdrawing into his own individual psyche, will
grow up to become the 'uncreative' adult who forsome unfathoma-
ble reason cannot even attempt to bring pencil to paper, but would
rather live in the grey twilight of unlived and unexpressed life,
envious of all those can express themselves better, rather than risk
the recall of the price paid for those initial creative efforts. The child
who draws his parents' jealousy down upon him because he is too
clever, too beautiful, too much himself, willgrow up into the adult
who sabotages himself each time he is threatened with success in
life, rather than risk the terrifying competition of parents without
whose support he cannot live. One does not wish to disturb the
blankness, the forgetting, even if it means that nascent growth or
the development of a talent is sacrificed. This is better and easier
than confronting the violent feelings of one's parents, one's
siblings, and oneself. Later, often under transits and progressions
involving Pluto, we remember what we have forgotten, the fear
and the pain and the longing and the rage. Then a return is
required, to the same place, through the same depression and grief
and self-disgust. But the journey later isa spiral rather than a circle,
because it is the child within the adult who remembers, and the
adult can, perhaps, help the child to tolerate and contain the pain.
Tartaros is sometimes the name given in myth to the whole of
Hades' realm. More often it refers to a kind of sub-realm, a
borough as it were, which is close in nature to the medieval
concept of Hell. It is from Tartaros that the brood of Mother Night
issues to torment living men and avenge family curses and sins
against the matriarchal line. In Tartaros the souls of the wicked are
fixed in unchanging torment throughout eternity. Yet it is a
radically different world from the Christian Hell. Torment in
Tartaros is portrayed through images of frustrated desire, rather
than random sadistic torture. The sins are different, too. If one
travels with Dante through the circles of the Inferno, one meets a
predictable catalogue of medieval sinners: the adulterer, the
usurer, the sodomite, the blasphemer. One also meets some
familiar pagan faces, for Dante's Christianity was not all that
Christian: Fortuna or Fate with her Wheel, and Cerberus, and
three-headed Dis (Hades). But Dante's underworld is a reflection
of the Middle Ages' obsession with the damnableness of world-
liness and sexuality.
In Tartaros things are different. Men's sins against men, particu-
larly the carnal ones, are not worthy of the name. Hubris, on the
Fate andPluto
49
other hand, earns the just reward. The mythic figures imprisoned
in Tartaros are men and women who have overstepped their
boundaries, transgressed natural law, insulted Moira and defied
the gods. They have lusted after a goddess, mocked a deity, or
boasted that they were greater than the Olympians. Pluto's law is
not that of social and legal constructs, nor concern for the civilised
behaviour of the group. A rapist himself, he does not judge the
sexual urges of others. He is not Saturn, and is unconcerned with
what men do to men in the world of form. He is not a patriarch, but
rather, a matriarch. So Sisyphus rolls his rock eternally up the hill
and must eternally watch it roll down to the bottom again, for ever
and ever, because he has betrayed Zeus' divine secrets. Tantalos
reaches eternally for the waterand the fruit which are eternally just
out of reach, because he has insulted and mocked the gods. Ixion
spins eternally on his fiery wheel, because he has attempted to
rape Hera, the queen of the gods. All these images are formula-
tions of frustration, endless despair, burning from within (like the
river Phlegethon), humiliation and nemesis as a reward forinflation
and pride.
To be put on the wheel in punishment (as lxion) is to be put into
an archetypal place, tied to the turns of fortune, the turns of the
moon and fate, and the endless repetitions of coming eternally
back to the same experience without release .. . Rings are closed
circles and the circlecloses on us whether in the marriage band,
the crowning laurel, or the wreath on the grave. 3 7
The irrevocable tum of fate, whether toward gain or loss, is
characteristic of Pluto. So too is the experience of frustrated desire.
That which we want more than we have ever wanted anything
before, but which is the one thing we cannot have, or can only have
through a great sacrifice or the death of some cherished part of
ourselves: all this is typical of Pluto. Naturally the sexual arena is
one of the most obvious places where this kind of experience
occurs. So is the arena of power and position. Power and sexuality,
power or loss of power through sexuality, are themes which are
intrinsic to Pluto. This seems to be what the Norsemen knew when
they duplicated that word for fate and genitals. I do not think it is
always clear whether the power lies in one's own hands or
another's, for the powerful one and the one who submits to him
are aspects of the same figure, just as Persephone belongs to
Hades. The craving and greed and desire emanate from both, and
wherever Pluto is found implicated in a situation where one must
submit to another who is more powerful, it is probably valuable to
remember that when this planet is involved one is never blame-
less. Confronted with Pluto, we meet our abhorrent compulsions,
50
The Astrology of Fate
our unsatisfiable passions: the impossible repetitive pattern of
struggling with something only to meet it again and again . Tarta-
ros describes in mythic language human darkness, greed and
pathology. It encompasses illness, cruelty, burning, obsession, icy
coldness and perpetual thirst. These tormented figures tell us
something else about Pluto: He reminds us over and over of the
incurable thing, the place of the unhealable wound, the psychopa-
thic side of the personality, the Gorgon's twisted outraged face. It
is the thing that never gets better. One of alchemy's images for this
greedy, desirous, violent, unredeemable side of nature is the wolf,
which must be placed in the alembic with the king. The wolf
destroys the king, and is then itself burned over a slow fire until
nothing is left but ash . If these things do truly change, they do so
only through fire; and the king, who embodies the ruling values
and belief systems of the ego, must die first. Pluto is therefore a
great and divine balancerofhubris. Without him man would believe
himself to be God, and would in the end destroy himself: a
situation that grows increasingly likely with the passage of time.
Faced with Pluto as the infant is faced with the mother, one
experiences the unpassable circle of the limitations of the soul, the
limitations of fate. These are not the worldly limits of Saturn, but
the deepest savouring of one's vulnerability and mortality.
The circular states of repetitiveness, turning and turning in the
gyres of our own conditions, forces us to recognise that these
conditions are our very essence and that the soul's circular
motion cannot be distinguished from blind fate.38
Pluto, it would seem, governs that which cannot or will not
change. This is a particularly painful issue in an age of self-help
therapies and a growing belief that one can make oneself into
anything, given the right techniques, books or spiritual leaders.
Humility before the gods is an antique virtue, promoted not only
by the Bible but by the Greeks as well. 'Nothing in excess' - not
even self-perfection - was carved before the door to Apollo's
temple at Delphi, along with 'Know thyself' . These were the chief
requirements the gods asked of men. But it is just this issue that
Pluto forces us to confront. It is ironic, and paradoxical, that the
genuine acceptance of the unchangeable is often one of the keys for
true and deep change within the psyche. But this little piece of
irony, which would have suited double-tongued Apollo, does not
appear to be learnable in any school but life's fires. Therefore it
remains a secret, not because nobody will tell it, but because
nobody will believe it, unless he has survived the fire.
Thus Pluto, as a symbol of retributive fate, rules the place where
the will no longer avails. Therapies and meditations and diets and
Fate and Pluto
51
encounters do not reach here; and the decision is no longer
whether I should do right or wrong, but whether I should sacrifice
my left arm or my right. This god is an image of our bondage, our
humbling and our rape. I feel that the issue of hubris, the offence
against circumscribed limits and against fate, lies at the core of the
meaning of the planet. Echoes of this theme are also to be found in
myth in connection with the sign of Scorpio, for the scorpion in
earliest Sumerian and Babylonian and Egyptian myth, as well as in
Greek, is invariably the creature sent by an angry deity to punish
somebody's hubris.
Since its first expressions in Greek and Latin, the Scorpion myth
has been connected with the disaster that struck Orion, the great
hunter whose hubris led him to offend the gods. The Scorpion
attacked and killed him, emerging suddenly from the bowels of
the earth - from beyond the world to which Orion, the one
attacked, belongs. As far as I know there is no astrological text in
which this element of sudden destructive aggressiveness does
not appear as an essential characteristic of Scorpio. Astrological
symbolism expresses this by assigning Scorpio to Ares (Mars),
the fiery and aggressive god, lord of violent and dramatic
catastrophes; thus immediately giving Scorpio the central sig-
nificance of a breakdown in equilibrium by the irruption, from
the shadows, of an unknown assailant . . . Scorpio, the sign of
the creature rising from chthonic moistures, is in fact char-
acterised more and more clearly as the sign of dross, of primitive
nature, chaotic, discordant, damnable, and revealing itself by
sudden and dangerous irruptions.P"
This attractive description seems to coincide with what we have
seen of Pluto. It is almost superfluous to add that, in the Orion
myth, the giant scorpion which destroys the great hunter for his
hubris is sent by Artemis-Hekate, 'mistress of the night road, of
fate, and of the world of the dead'.
3
The Astrological Pluto
Nature loves to hide.
Heraclitus
I would now like to look more carefully at Pluto in the horoscope.
Somewhere within the birth chart will be found the entry into the
Great Place Below, 'in a grove of black poplars beside the Ocean
stream'. In one form or another, each of us has met or will meet the
feminine image of retributive fate which punishes hubris and
redresses family sin. Pluto moves very slowly through the zodiac,
taking a leisurely 248 years to complete his round. Because so
many people are born with Pluto in a given sign, he will stamp an
entire generation with a particular compulsion, a particular kind of
obsession, and a particular form of recompense.
It is difficult to talk about generations in any way other than in
generalisations, because some individuals seem to embody the
zeitgeist or spirit of their time, and others do not appear to express it
at all. It is even more difficult for me to elaborate from living
examples about Pluto's generational themes, because I have never
met anyone living with Pluto in Aries, Taurus, Scorpio (at least,
not yet), Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius or Pisces. My direct
experience of Pluto is limited to those with him placed in Gemini,
Cancer, Leo, Virgo and Libra, and, at the time of writing, those
with Pluto in Virgo and Libra have not yet reached maturity and
exhibited the potential of the planetary placement in full. That is
not even half the zodiac. I can only attempt to capture a feeling of
the ways in which an entire group will flock to one banner,
respond in similar fashion to external and internal challenges and
pressures, express the same deep subterranean needs and visions,
by an observation of cultural trends, fads and fashions, and, most
importantly, the collective fate which such a group must fulfiLl do
not wish to attempt this through theory alone, and shall therefore
limit my description to those groups of which I have the most
The Astrological Pluto
53
experience. It cannot be accidental, any more than any astrological
coincidence is accidental, that the generation born with Pluto in
Cancer, spanning the years between 1914 and 1939, have passed
through two wars and the complete destruction and trans-
formation of everything that meant home, nation, family and clan.
With this group, the sacrosanct inviolability of family and country
as the justification of everything came to an end. These are the
people whose children became drop-outs and runaways, and who
suffered the overturning of the family unit as primary law. Perhaps
obsessive overvaluing or idealising is what, in part, constitutes the
hubris that invokes the wrath of the denizens of the Great Place
Below. To offer anything such blind obedience, be it family, nation
or even relationship 'for the sake of the children', is a form of
excess . As John Cooper Powys once wrote, the Devil is any God
who begins to exact obedience.
I have certainly seen this intense and blind commitment to
family and country with great frequency among those who have
Pluto in Cancer, and also the tragic bewilderment and disillu-
sionment when families and countries were torn apart during their
lifetimes. It is as though this group is marked as the battleground
where old values and ethics have been burned in the purifying fire,
freeing the collective of a little more blindness and unconscious-
ness in the sphere of family and roots. What heritage and blood
and duty to nation meant to these people is something those born
later will perhaps never comprehend, because those values belong
to a generation which has suffered greatly and been transformed
out of this destruction. If there is such a thing as a lesson to be
learned, then perhaps it is about the dangers of interpreting our
obsessions on a concrete level. But I am more inclined to see it not
as a lesson, but as a necessary fate, so that something might be
freed or deepened within the collective: a bridge over which the
next generation may walk. Whatever 'home' or 'family' or 'nation'
means, those with Pluto in Cancer have been coerced by the events
of their times into either understanding these terms differently and
more deeply, or living with a canker of bitterness and longing for a
past which can never exist again.
Nor do I feel it to be accidental that the generation born with
Pluto in Leo - the so-called 'me' generation, spanning the years
between 1939and 1958- have made a god of individualism and the
right for individual expression and destiny, while they have grown
up in a world where political ideologies lean increasingly towards
the group, the collective, rather than the individual. In this world
technology has become so sophisticated that individual gifts are
being rendered superfluous because a computer can do it better;
and a shrinking world economy and disappearing planetary
54
The Astrology of Fate
resources have put the tools and means for such individual expres-
sion out of many people's reach. During the lifetimes of those with
Pluto in Leo, half the nations of the world have espoused a form of
socialism or communism which frustrates with utter ruthlessness
the Leonine conviction of the sanctity of individual differences and
individual worth.
Generations too have fates, are afflicted with hubris and over-
attachment, are raped by necessity, are recompensed with eter-
nally frustrated desire; and serve as pointers to the rest of us about
the laws of allotment and mortality. I believe that Pluto represents
a force in the collective psyche as well as in the individual: an
impersonal order, a Moira that reminds us perpetually of the limits
of nature which we transgress at our peril. Uranus and Neptune
too are great collective daimones, dynamic 'gods' within the body of
the collective, that give birth to streams of new ideas and streams
of new religious visions. Pluto is to me the symbol of Moira within
the human soul, sounding the drumbeat of recurrent historical
cycles and heralding the end of expansion in the sphere of a
particular sign: the finishing of a chapter begun 248years before. It
marks the ordained end, the advent of fate.
Although each person is bound to the fate of his generation, he
meets Pluto primarily through a particular house in the horoscope,
and through the planet's aspects to more personal planets. So the
grim law of nature confronts us through very personal domains of
life, and appears as 'my fate'. An astrological house is like a stage
upon which the actors play. The scenic .backdrop is skilfully
painted to represent 'money',
'home',
'friends',
'partners',
'health', 'children'. I have written elsewhere of the multilevelled
meanings of the different houses, so Iwill not elaborate them here.
The sets, within a basic theme, can take on different colorations.
But it is an interior painter who designs these backdrops which are
the houses; they, like the geography of Hades, are really inner
landscapes which we project upon outer objects. The subjective
manner in which we perceive the outer world is coloured by the
signs and planets tenanting a particular astrological house, and
each person sees a different vision. Thus, with Pluto placed in a
given house of the horoscope, some sphere of life becomes the
place where one meets the retributive justice connected with
ancestral sin, the limitations of nature visited congenitally upon
the individual through what appears to be 'my problem', 'my
incurable wound'.
Meeting Pluto in the seventh house, for example, means
meeting Moira through the partner, the 'other'. The circumstances
may vary enormously. Divorce is common, as are love triangles,
painful rejections, experiences of dominance and submission
The Astrological Pluto
55
within relationship, complete sacrifice of relationship due to con-
victions or circumstances, death of the partner, confrontation with
madness in another, marriage to one who brings a great emotional
or concrete burden, sexual problems and power battles. All these
enactments are typical of Pluto in the seventh. The variations are
enormous, but the theme is single: relationships are the place
where one is subjected to something far more powerful and
inevitable than one's own willand choices. Sometimes the individ-
ual may elect to work with others who are caught in Pluto's web,
and this is another way of meeting him in the sphere of relation-
ship. Here we find the doctor, the psychoanalyst, the psychiatrist
and even the politician, who must deal with a world no less mad
than that which his medical counterparts must meet. There is as
much compulsion in these 'chosen' professions as there is in the
more fraught world of the Plutonian love affair; but one has the
illusion that it is a 'job'.
The intrinsic meaning in all these variations seems to be the
same: there is nothing one can do, save to trust to fate. It is this
feeling of powerlessness which seems to pervade any encounter
with Pluto, and here the powerlessness is experienced in relation
to another. Either the partner imposes a fate about which the
individual can do nothing, or the individual himself is made in a
certain way and cannot, however hard he tries, alter his needs or
patterns in relationship. All personal encounters are turbulent,
and the deeper the meeting, the less it is within one's control. Thus
the deepest changes take place through these encounters. I have
noticed that many seventh house Pluto people form the habit of
avoiding deep relationship, lest fate be invoked and
those
emotions which belong to Ereshkigal's domain be unleashed. Yet
fate will not be cheated, and seems to come upon the person
sooner or later, no matter how strenuous the avoidance. Ihave also
seen many situations where the primordial emotions of the under-
world are projected upon the partner; this is an extremely popular
way of experiencing Pluto in the seventh house. It is the partner
who is vicious, violent, treacherous, overpowering, castrating,
devouring, paralysing, manipulative, cruel. I do not need to
emphasise the degree to which one's own unconscious behaviour
can draw such primitive emotions from even the most civilised of
companions. Naturally it is not really the other who is all these
things, but rather, a deity, a primeval power in life which one
perceives via the other. This is the power that forces us to accept
the uncivilised face of nature as a necessary ingredient of experi-
ence. And this terrifying other would never enter one's life dis-
guised as partner, lover, friend, or 'public' (forthat isanother stage
backdrop belonging to the seventh house) if that deeper Other did
56
The Astrology of Fate
not abide somewhere within, the invisible enchanter and rapist of
the soul. The partner may leave, betray, cheat, restrict, die, or
present painful and often insurmountable difficulties. But it is
through that partner that an archetypal power is encountered. We
are free in every place but this, where we meet Necessity.
I do not wish here to elaborate house by house the manifest-
ations of Pluto in the horoscope. It is not my intention to provide a
'cookbook' for the interpretation of this planet, but rather, to focus
on the feeling and meaning of Pluto in a more general way. The
reader can no doubt work the rest out for himself. The confront-
ations with power and powerlessness, loss and frustrated desire,
and the potential healing that arises from the acceptance of Neces-
sity are characteristic of Pluto in every house. Some houses, such
as the seventh and tenth, tend to present us with people and
objects, while others, such as the eighth and twelfth, tend to
present us with inner objects and emotional states - the non-
corporeal actors in the play. But the encounter is the same. The
goddess Necessity, whose Greek name is Ananke and whom we
met in Plato's cosmic vision, is another image worth exploring for
amplification of the astrological meaning of Pluto. Necessity in
Greek myth is always spoken of and experienced in what James
Hillman calls 'pathologised modes'.
Pathologised experiences are often connected directly with
Ananke (Necessity) . . . At core, necessity means a physically
oppressive tie of servitude to an inescapable power. The family
relationships and the ties we have in our personal worlds are
ways in which we experience the force of necessity. Our
attempts to be free of personal binds are attempts at escaping
from the tight circle of Ananke.t"
A quality of chronic, repetitious suffering or restriction, which
circles back again and again just when one thinks oneself free of it,
is something I associate with Pluto's effect on the spheres of life
represented by the astrological houses. There is never any final
solution, but rather, a spiralling which takes the individual deeper
and deeper into himself. This might also be described as a feeling
of being fettered to something, just as Ananke in Plato's vision
'fetters' or compels the heavens to circle according to her law. For
example, I have known many people with Pluto in the ninth house
who feel fettered in this fashion to what they understand as God,
the 'oppressive tie of servitude' to an aspiration which may be
anything but beatific. The seventh house I have already touched
upon, and the sense of being fettered to a partner is characteristic
of this placement of Pluto. I have also seen Pluto work through the
fourth house in this way, binding the individual to his heredity
The Astrological Pluto
57
and his family myths in such a way that these cannot be psycholo-
gised away or forgotten even if thousands of miles are placed
between the individual and his familyof origin. In the tenth, Pluto
often wears the face of the personal mother, while behind that
fleshly face is the Great Mother who binds her child with unbreak-
able cords that often lie within the body itself. The tenth is also the
house of 'the world', and this too is the body of the mother; and it
not only fetters the individual to positions of responsibility within
it, but
punishes ferociously any transgression beyond the
appointed limits. I am thinking here, among others, of Richard
Nixon, who has Pluto in the tenth house in Gemini and who, I
suspect, is no more corrupt than most American politicians. But it
was his fate toget caught, and to become the public scapegoat ofan
outraged 'world'. Nor was Watergate the first taste of Ananke that
Richard Nixon experienced; his political career is criss-erossed
with the repetitive tracks of failure just at the moment of achieve-
ment, and subsequent resurrection, and subsequent failure. As
Aeschylos' Prometheus complains:
Oh woeis me!
I groan for the present sorrow,
Igroan for thesorrow tocome, I groan
questioning when there shall come a time
when Heshall ordain a limit to mysufferings.
Whatam I saying? I have known all before,
all that shal! be, and clearly known; to me,
nothing that hurts shall come with a newface.
So I must bear, as lightlyas I can,
thedestiny thatfate has given me;
for I know wellagainst Necessity,
against its strength, noonecan fight and win.41
Not even a god, says Plato, can cope with Necessity.
When I have discussed the various placements of Pluto in the
horoscope with my clients, I am struck by the fact that the usually
productive psychological approach of trying to bring the uncon-
scious elements into consciousness does not, in the end, make all
that much difference. It may, however, interiorise the dilemma, so
that Pluto is not met so blindly through outer events and people .
Also, digging deep to unearth the background experiences which
form the web of bondage to the past may release a profound sense
of 'rightness' or meaningfulness. But the fate does not go away.
That is not to say that psychological insight is irrelevant with Pluto.
It seems to be quite the reverse, for it is just this compulsion to find
the roots of a problem which introduces the individual to the
reality of Moira. But once the bottom of the barrel has been
58
The Astrology of Fate
scraped, and the personal outrages, hates, hurts, poisons, separa-
tions and griefs of childhood have been contacted and expressed
and even forgiven, there is still the barrel itself, with the already
written shape of the individual's bondage. Ifone is fettered to God
with Pluto in the ninth house, then one remains fettered to God. It
is just that the overlay of personal father and mother, childhood
church, inculcated moral teachings et al. may no longer cloak the
stark and purposeful nature of the chain.
What, then, does one teU the astrological client, or oneself?
Athene soothes the ire of the Erinyes by granting them an
honoured place in the divine hierarchy: an altar and respectful
worship. She overturns the dictum that 'food's offered to either
but not both together'. Enki's little mourners soften the hideous
suffering and rage of Ereshkigal by listening, by being receptive,
by waiting without judgement. Whether there is more that we can
do is another issue. There is a history of effort not only to avoid or
escape fate in the stream of Neoplatonic philosophy, but also to
transform it; or, perhaps more accurately, to transform the individ-
ual's relationship with it. We shall examine this more deeply in due
course. But much of the work of transformation, if that is indeed
what it is, also lies in the mythic formula of honouring, listening,
accepting and waiting. I do not believe there is any other way to
learn respect for one's inner laws. Any more cerebral or wilful
methods do not seem to reach the halls of the Great Place Below,
and may anger further an already furious power. From what I have
seen of Pluto, I would find it funny if it were not often so painful,
when there is talk of 'mastering' or 'transcending' this planet.
I would now like to explore in greater detail some of the aspects
of Pluto. I must repeat that I am not attempting to provide a
'cookbook' of interpretations, so not every aspect of Pluto with
every other planet is mentioned. Rather, I am seeking further
insights into the issues of individual fate which the planet seems to
reflect. An astrological aspect between two planets - no matter
whether it is a conjunction, square, opposition, sextile, trine,
sesquiquadrate or quintile - makes those planets lifelong bed-
fellows . Or, put another way, the gods, or motivations, which the
planets represent, cannot be separated, but blend together and
fight together on both internal and external levels until death parts
them and the individual. So we must consider what sort of
bedfellow Pluto makes, and what he does, in bed or out, to those
planets which he aspects. Hades and Ereshkigal, of course,
provide us with some very succinct imagery, for we have already
seen how they are prone to greet visitors to their domain. Rape,
death, suffering, bondage and resurrection are their themes.
The aspects of Pluto to the sun, moon and ascendant, especially
TheAstrological Pluto
59
the conjunctions, squares and oppositions, seem to turn up with
great regularity in the charts of those into whose lives fate has
noticeably intruded. Whether this is an external fate - illness,
congenital
defect,
death,
encounter
with
armies
or
alien
governments - or an internal one - madness, in oneself or a close
relation, nightmare, obsessions and compulsions - these are not
the people with whom one can talk for long about 'blueprints'.
Although the circumstances vary, there is usually a sense of
confrontation with something irrevocable, which must be met and
acknowledged. There may be some choice about where this
meeting takes place; I have worked with many sun-Pluto people,
for example, who have elected to confront the diseased and the
mad and the primordial through the medium of the helping
professions, or through politics. But this is perhaps a mature
decision (if it is truly a decision at all), made in the second half of
life, to deal with something which the individual has had to accept
as his necessity. These are often the very people who have suffered
from Pluto earlier in life, and who have managed to fight through
to the healing aspects of the destruction. But ifthe Plutonian realm
is shut out by an individual in whom the planet figures strongly,
then it seems that trouble ensues. I have seen sun and moon
contacts with Pluto in a good many cases of psychotic breakdown,
where the enemy is not corporeal but lies in the violent depths of
the person himself.
Sometimes sun-Pluto and moon-Pluto are lived out through a
violent or disturbed husband or wife, an ill mother, a problematic
child, a sterile womb, an inherited iIlness. Pluto, when he is
manifesting in this form, is not much fun. But I believe these
differing faces of bondage are purposeful, in the sense that Moira is
purposeful. Something is taken away, so that another thing might
grow in its place. The seeds of this bondage generally lie several
generations back, so that the sins of the parents are well and truly
visited upon the children; and it becomes the children's task to
attempt some kind of understanding. If one does not take up this
challenge, then there is only a black despair and a rage against life.
I have come to feel that when Pluto is strongly marked in the birth
horoscope, the individual is faced with the task of redeeming or
carrying something for the larger collective, which only he is able
or equipped to do; or, put another way, he is faced with the
expiation of ancestral sin, and must become a bridge over which
something ancient and undifferentiated and outcast may walk to
find a welcome in consciousness. Collective fate here intrudes
upon the life of the individual, and may demand great effort and
sacrifice. There is also redemption in this kind of encounter with
fate, for the 'ability to do gladly that which I must do' relates the
60
The Astrology of Fate
ego to an eternal and interconnected cosmos. This transformative
effect of Pluto seems to offer a renewal of life through seeing life
with different eyes. It is in its own way a profoundly religious
experience, although it has little to do with any heavenly spirit and
is much more related to the support of the instincts and of the
feminine pole of life. Paracelsus, the sixteenth-eentury physician
and astrologer, put it this way:
What then is happiness but compliance with the order of nature
through knowledge of nature? What is unhappiness but oppo-
sition to the order of nature? He who walks in light is not
unhappy, nor is he who walks in darkness unhappy. Both are
right. Both do well, each in his own way. He who does not fall
complies with the order. But he who falls has transgressed
against it.42
Sometimes compliance with the order of nature may be beyond
an individual's resources. There are extremes of loneliness, isola-
tion and despair - embodied in Inanna's encounter with Ereshki-
gal- which, if the individual does not possess the ego strength to
contain them, may become unbearable in the end. In some theo-
retical and ideal universe, one 'ought' perhaps to work with Pluto
in an enlightened way. But we do not live in such a world, and Iam
not convinced that this is the 'fault' of 'society' so much as it is one
of the sadder aspects of the patchy progress of human evolution.
The man whose dream I have given below is one of those individ-
uals whose story has made me query the speciousness with which
astrology is sometimes inclined to treat the difficult aspects of
Pluto in the birth horoscope. I have also reproduced his chart,
although no time of birth was available and we must therefore be
content with a 'flat' chart without an ascendant or house cusps.
Following is the dream:
I am in a rock quarry. In front of me is a bottomless pool of black
water which goes down into the rocks. Something is floating to
the surface from very far below. I am rooted to the rocks with
terror and cannot move. Iwake up before the thing surfaces, but
I have seen it through the water. It is an Egyptian mummy,
wrapped in bandages.
I cannot think of a more Plutonian image than this ancient
mummy rising to the surface from immeasurable depths of black
water. But the dreamer possessed no resources with which to cope
with fate's demand that something be confronted. The dream, and
something of the background of the young man, whom I will call
Timothy S., were given to me by the psychiatrist by whom he was
being treated. Not long after he had this dream, he committed
DIAGRAM 1. Birth horoscope of Timothy S.
b. 14 Novemberl947
no birth time given; planetary placements are for noon GMT
d. 27 June 1981
transits for date of death: Imidnight GMT)
05~16
Jb 3 t)
011
)29"(> 14
~ 27 II 54
? 26..J!j)"33
d' 15II 21
4- 1 ~47
"7 3 ~24
*26~39'lo
<f 231' 09"
~ 21~32.
62
The Astrology of Fate
suicide. His death was
not one of those attention-claiming
attempts gone wrong, but was a carefully organised and impecca-
bly executed self-sentence. He did not speak of his suicidal feelings
to the psychiatrist; he simply left his last session with a remark
about the next appointment, waited for a day or two, and then
hooked up the exhaust pipe of his car in an isolated wood, so that
he might asphyxiate himself without interruption.
Timothy had a long history of psychiatric illness, and had
received repeated treatment for depressive breakdown. He experi-
enced a constant inner torment of isolation and self-loathing. He
had never formed any close relationship with either man or
woman; he fought constantly the incipient feelings of need and
warmth toward his psychiatrist. His dwelling in the underworld
was intolerable to him, but the pain of forming a relationship
seemed even more intolerable. Evidently he elected to remove
himself once and for all from his anguish. He left behind a
document, the life history required by many psychiatric estab-
lishments, which is an eloquent statement of his Plutonian world,
and of which I am grateful to be able to reproduce an extract.
I feel at this moment hopelessly alone, scared, trapped and
depressed .. . I realisethis is a crisis but the new cannot be born
and the old will not die, so where do we go from here? Another
sleepless and tormented night; I don't know what it is that has
reaped such havoc inside me but whatever is there has always
been. It has always tormented me in one way or another, like a
worm eating away at an apple. It has almost completely con-
sumed me and I can go no further. What can the doctors do?
The anti-psychiatry sentiments prevalent among many astrol-
ogers and counsellors might be invoked here, but Ido not feel they
would apply to this situation. The man who worked with Timothy
knew very well the necessity of dealing with his young patient
with a greater degree of depth and humanity than is usually found
within psychiatric establishments, and I do not feel, from my own
conclusions about both the case history and the chart, that any
blame rests here. Perhaps some deeper form of psychotherapy
earlier in life might have helped. But by the time Timothy began to
work with my colleague, he had already experienced years of drug
therapy and EO; and I feel that something in him had already
given up from the repeated failures of the doctors to help him. Such
methods, although they have their place, are not necessarily the
best way to deal with Pluto. In what way Timothy had inherited a
collective or family fate I do not know. Certainly many deep
parental and sexual problems emerged during the few sessions
before his death. But a mummy is an ancient thing, and belongs to
The Astrological Pluto
63
a past which predates the failings of the personal parents. I have
found that a strongly Plutonian disposition often inclines the
individual towards identifying with those 'ancestral sins' that lie
deep in the collective unconscious, with the result that he may
provoke, or believe that he deserves, retributive justice.
Although we lack Timothy's ascendant, the planetary aspects
and signs in this horoscope are quite eloquent. The sun is in
Scorpio, in square to a Saturn-Pluto conjunction in Leo. Mars is
also part of this conjunction, and one of the implications of this
grouping is that all the violence and aggression and powerful
sexuality suggested by the configuration is turned againstTimothy
himself. Now obviously a great many people were born with the
sun in Scorpio squaring the Mars-Saturn-Pluto conjunction in Leo,
and they do not all have depressive breakdowns and kill them-
selves . Some even become astrologers, or psychotherapists. But
even the most careful sifting of the parental background would
only explain why Timothy did not have the personal resources to
confront the darkness in himself. It would not explain where the
darkness came from, or what its intrinsic nature was. From astrol-
ogy's point ofview, this darkness isa given; itisa fate. Timothy was
born with the necessity ofliving with a potent and primordial force
within himself, which the collective standards of his family and his
society did not equip him to understand. He was horrified by the
violent sexual fantasies which plagued him and the discovery of
cruelty and bestiality within himself. Here perhaps one may
consider the parents; no real acceptance was given of this more
primitive side of his nature. ButIhave not met many parents of the
generation of Timothy's who would be capable of such insight and
containment. One of the more important implications of astrology
in this case is that we are each given different proportions of
helpings from different gods. The inverted rage and passion of
Mars-Saturn-Pluto in square to a Scorpio sun are not 'caused' by
parental rejection or neglect. Certainly the subjective portrait of
the father suggested by these aspects is not a very edifying one.
But those passions were there from the beginning, as Timothy
himself was perceptive enough to see.
Because Scorpio and Pluto are connected so strongly with what
our culture sees as dross and discordance and unacceptable
emotion, it is easy for the Scorpio individual to see himself as the
embodiment of all the family's shadow side, the carrier of evil and
darkness. Yet to blame the culture is absurd; for there are archety-
pal patterns at work within cultures as there are within individ-
uals, and for the last two thousand years the archetypal dominants
in the West have moved in a direction antithetical to Pluto.
Blaming the family is equally absurd, for its members suffer the
64
The Astrology of Fate
same collective problem. Not only may family members project
upon the Plutonian individual the unwelcome dross in their own
natures; such an individual will himself readily accept the projec-
tion, and find nothing of the light within, but only darkness. The
mummified Osiris, a mythic image which emphasises the import-
ance of Timothy's dream and of the crisis he was entering, is an
image of depression and darkness, for the god lies in such a state of
death after his unsuccessful battle with Set, the lord of the under-
world, before the goddess Isis resurrects the corpse. The dream
might imply a possibility of resurrection, as the mummy floats to
the surface of the water. Butforan individual who has spent his life
in isolation and self-hatred, the compassionate acceptance and
love of another may be too painful to bear.
At the time of Timothy's suicide, an illuminating transit was at
work: Uranus, in the last decanate of Scorpio, was moving over the
sun and squaring the Mars-Saturn-Pluto conjunction. Although it
was not in exact aspect on the date of death, it had been stirring up
the natal configuration for some time, with the implied possibility
of some kind of breakthrough or resolution. Transits of Uranus, I
have found, offer this chance: one may bring something into
consciousness which has been buried or denied for a lifetime. It is
my feeling, from this transit, that there might have been an
opportunity for change. Perhaps it was this very thing that ter-
rified Timothy, because the devil that one knows is sometimes
more comforting than the new lifewith all its unknown responsibi-
lities and demands.
I would not like to venture an opinion about whether anything
can be 'done' when an individual has himself chosen to meet his
fate in such a final way. Perhaps, in some sense, Timothy offered
himself as a scapegoat or sacrifice. I had occasion to observe Mr
and Mrs S. at the coroner's inquest where my colleague was
required to give his report, for, being curious about Timothy's
parents from my examination of his horoscope, I requested per-
mission to attend. They were pleasant and unassuming people
who simply could not comprehend what had happened, and had
very obviously never, themselves, looked into the jaws of hell.
Their little sins were apparent: stuffiness, prudishness, unlived
shadows, a lackof real understanding of the complex creature they
knew as a son. They were simple, ordinary, collective folk, not
greatly different from most parents. It would be ridiculous and
useless to blame them, for Pluto stretches back further than the
parents, and the ancestral sins of the collectiveare exceedingly old.
In the end, one cannot judge what this sacrificed life might have
redeemed in the act of suicide, although our conscious judgments
are naturally to the contrary.
The Astrological Pluto
65
Another aspect of Pluto which I have found to be particularly
turbulent - perhaps because its meaning collides with popular
social definitions of love and marriage - is Venus-Pluto. The
problems of this aspect need to be considered whether it is found
in the birth chart or in progression or transit. Once again, I do not
feel there is any appreciable difference in meaning whether it is a
'good' or 'bad' aspect, save that the individual may find it easier to
accept and give value to Pluto's demands ifthe aspect isa harmoni-
ous one. Myth is, as usual, a fruitful amplification, and in particu-
lar the myth we have already met: the descent of Inanna the
love-goddess into the realm of her sister Ereshkigal, Lady of the
Great Place Below.
Inanna is an earlier and less differentiated form of Venus,
goddess of sexual love and fertility. She is creative and joyful, the
Queen of Heaven, unmarried and with many lovers, delighting in
the beauty of her own body, and also a wise judge and counsellor.
She is an extroverted goddess, and Venus isan extroverted planet,
seeking her fulfilment through stimulation from, and union with,
beloved objects. Even quarrelling and raging in battle for the sake
of the passionate experience of life which encounter with another
brings is part of Venus' outward-directed world . Even in battle,
Inanna is 'clean', for her whole self is given to her actions, and
there are no hidden, devious motives. For Inanna, or for what the
planet Venus represents within the individual, the collision with
the dark realm is an exposure to that side of love which is most
frequently seen in the marriage counsellor's consulting room: the
power battles, manipulations, greeds, vendettas, and oppressions
which are often only detectable by their smell. In this dark land-
scape we meet the Gorgon raging, and the unfeeling ice-man
withdrawing; the Terrible Mother and the castrated son; the spider
or scorpion which eats its mate after the act of love. Awareness of
this side of relationship is perhaps not required of everyone. It
would seem, from the size of the subscriptions, that some people
can model their marriages after the pattern of ladies' journals and
actually get away with such blissful ignorance - or such blissful
simplicity. Or perhaps it is simply not their fate to have Ereshkigal
in the connubial bed.
Not so with Venus-Pluto; for Pluto introduces Venus to what
lies beneath the
flowers and
elegant gestures of romantic
courtship. This underpinning is often not 'pretty', and certainly
not 'fair', For the individual with Venus-Pluto who has not yet
reached the middle of life, the fate may not have made itself known.
But it becomes apparent later, which is why the aspect has
acquired a reputation for broken marriages.Venus-Pluto also has a
propensity for sexual triangles. These are neither fair nor wished
66
The Astrology ofFate
for, but are a fact of life, generally compulsive and conducive to
considerable suffering among all the participants. Venus-Pluto is
not cool or 'liberated' like Venus-Uranus, nor is it martyrlike and
self-sacrificing like Venus-Neptune. In terms of personality quali-
ties, it is proud, passionate, intense and often achingly loyal, just
as Ereshkigal is. But the very intensity of its passion usually runs
side by side with spite, vengeance, betrayal, loss, manipulation
and a revelation of one's own potential for the destruction of what
one loves most. It may be the fate of Venus-Pluto to be the
betrayed, and equally often to be the betrayer. But it seems that the
experience of betrayal is embedded in the necessity of the aspect. I
have found that the square and opposition of Venus to Pluto often
'disown' the Plutonian side. One then hears the time-honoured
justification: 'It's not me that's jealous and possessive/treacherous
and disloyal, it's my wifelhusband.' Nevertheless, despite this
very understandable and very human effort to farm the unpleasing
qualities of the aspect out onto others, the collision with Pluto's
world of steamy and ambivalent emotions is still likely to occur
within relationship, regardless of whose 'fault' it is. Leaving one
relationship to find another, more trouble-free idyll, tends to
simply repeat the same pattern.
Love for Venus-Pluto may be transformative, deepening, numi-
nous, ecstatic, and full of meaning and richness; and there is
usually a sense of fatality about it. But it is never simple, and is not
permitted to remain naive. The prettiness of Venus, reflected in
Libra's courtly etiquette and Taurus' gentle simplicity, is pitted
against the subtleties and secret purposes of the destroyer-rapist.
Something or someone is trying to dismember the very thing one
values and cherishes the most. I believe that this destroyer, which
is inherent in the psyche of the individual who is born with
Venus-Pluto, is not really intent upon wanton ruin. Perhaps it is
intent upon self-revelation, or a discovery of the underworld of
one's own emotions - an acceptance of a daimon more powerful
than good intentions and loving thoughts. Only the Olympians
can claim goodness and perfection, and even they cannot claim it
all the time. What is incarnate is flawed, and shares in the violence
and darkness of nature. Rather than accept this, Venus-Pluto will
more often try to blame the partner for this fated intrusion into
idealised love. One imagines that one sees in the other, male or
female, the shadowy woman with the 'soul-freezing eyes'. It is not
that Venus-Pluto is incapable of the gentler face of love. But this
comes at a price. Here fate often intrudes upon love, frequently in
the form of an obsessive sexual passion, or the breakdown of the
sexual relationship between two people, which forces one or the
other of them to begin to consider what might be meant by 'the
TheAstrologiCQI Pluto
67
unconscious'. I think that Enki's mourners are of some help in this
situation, for such an attitude offers recognition and acceptance of
the beast in oneself which it is one's fate to meet in the marriage
bed, the embrace of the lover, the sexual initiation.
Death is also a form of initiation into Venus-Pluto, and some-
times the aspect makes a concrete manifestation as the death of the
beloved or the cherished child or the needed parent at an age when
support is most necessary. This is easy to write about, and much
more difficult to endure, especially when Pluto denies or destroys
the relationship one has so badly wanted through betrayal or a
death which is no one's 'fault' but is simply irreconcilable. But it is
sometimes helpful to remember that Inanna's death and regener-
ation, her suffering in the underworld and her redemption, renew
lifein the world above. Inanna's story is the oldest myth ofsacrifice
and transformation known, and far predates the story of Jesus. In
its earliest form it is envisaged as a feminine journey toward a
feminine goal, although it is certainly not the exclusive priority of
women. This story is our most ancient promise of the necessity of
grief and mourning to renew a living connection with one's own
reality.
I would like to quote in relation to this aspect the dream ofone of
my analysands, which occurred during the long transit of Pluto
over her natal Venus. In her birth chart the sun conjuncts Pluto in
Leo, and both are in semisquare to Venus. At the time of the
beginning of the transit, she had not in any way permitted the
qualities of the sun-Pluto conjunction, with its intense sense of
'differentness' and its passionate purposefulness, to enter her life.
I am with my husband, mother and sister at a hotel in the
country. We are trying to find a way into the city, but the
arrangements for transportation have got mixed up. My father
has gone on ahead with my son, and they are already in the city.
The four of us are waiting at a crossroads to get a taxi. It begins to
grow dark. One of the side roads is only a dirt track which
vanishes into thick bushes and trees. Suddenly my sister sees
something on the track, and becomes horribly frightened. She
grabs my mother by the arm and begins to run back to the hotel,
screaming at me and my husband to hurry or 'it' will get us. I
peer down the track and see a blurred black shape, a kind of
sinister cloud, moving towards us. I try to drag my husband by
the arm, but he is very slow and stumbles as though drunk.
Finally he runs into a bush. It is too late; there is no escape.
The central image of this dream, beneath its contemporary
overlay, is an archetypal one, which may be met in many fairy
tales: the meeting in the lonely wood, or on the lonely road, with
68
TheAstrology of Fate
that which is dark, evil or otherworldly. Coleridge expresses it in
these lines from The Ancient Mariner:
Like one, that on a lonesome road
Dothwalk in fear and dread,
And havingonce turned round walks on,
And turns no more his head;
Because heknows, a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.
This is the encounter with the unconscious, which at first seems
destructive and terrifying. The 'black shape' which approaches the
dreamer from the narrow track that leads into the impenetrable
forest of the psyche turned out, over the ensuing months, to
embody what we have seen of Ereshkigal; for this dream heralded
in my analysand, whom I will call Caroline, a near-psychotic
eruption of violent rage, destructiveness, terror of separation, and
an obsessive fear of uterine cancer which had no medical basis but
seemed to concretise in the body the invisible corrosive enemy. I
have found that many people with the element of fire strong in the
horoscope tend to experience such unconscious eruptions first as a
fantasy of sickness in the body . Caroline had been a 'good wife', a
,perfect mother', and was known among family and friends for her
optimism, generosity and sunny nature - what one might expect
from the sun in Leo. Nothing was to be seen of the greater depth of
the sun-Pluto conjunction. That she had amputated certain
aspects of herself in order to live up to this collective fantasy had
not yet occurred to her. With Venus in Libra in the birth chart, she
held very romantic ideals about love and marriage, and could not
abide 'scenes' or negative emotions in her relationships. She was
never angry, and almost always gave way to others so as not to be
what she called 'selfish'. The darker qualities of Pluto were carried,
as might be expected by its conjunction with the sun, by her father,
who had run off with another woman when Caroline was very
young. It will be apparent without lengthy explanation what this
parental scenario contributed to her strenuous efforts at per-
fection .
Caroline found that it helped her to represent the uprushing
black emotions in drawings, which were almost always black and
red and portrayed snakelike shapes or prehistoric reptilian mon-
sters: images of the primeval feminine, Tiamat the dragon out of
whose body the world was made, Mother Night in her cold-
blooded inhuman vastness, immured in the swamps of time.
Looked at in a more reductive way, this black inhuman rage was
also her own and her mother's rage at the sexual humiliation of a
husband lost to another woman. Caroline held, beneath her bright
The Astrological Pluto
69
and romantic exterior, a deep and abiding hatred of men and of
life, which welded her into a unity with her superficially quiet but
inwardly seething mother. As we worked on these issues, it
became increasingly apparent to Caroline that the loathsome
emotions, and the equally loathsome pictures she painted, might
be recognised as valid expressions of vital life. The transit of Pluto,
portrayed on an inner level by the dream, introduced her to a
world within herself which was, in part, a family inheritance - the
unexpressed poison and grief of her mother and her mother's
mother and her mother's mother's mother, which alIof the preced-
ing generations had run away from but which she was now fated to
encounter. This family running seems to be expressed in the
dream by the father, mother, son and sister all vanishing in
different directions and leaving her to deal with the 'black shape'.
It is her dream, and her issue, and the others cannot help her.
In the dream, Caroline's husband is ineffectual; in fact, it is his
apparent drunkenness which ultimately prevents her escape. In
her actual life this situation was in fact expressed. Her husband,
who was burdened with his own emotional difficulties, could not
redeem her as she had unconsciously hoped he would . She was
faced with her own necessity, and no rescue was permitted. Yet
the advent of this experience deepened and matured her. Her
sense of her own individuality and separate destiny began to
emerge, as is fitting for a sun-Pluto in Leo, bringing with it both
sadness and aloneness and a greater feeling of worth as an erotic
and alive woman instead of merely someone's two-dimensional
wife and mother. It is not surprising thatwhat seems like a rebirth
into creative life should be met with so much resistance and
ambivalence, because the route - as the myth of Inanna suggests -
is almost always through the darkness when Venus and Pluto are
in aspect. Even the resultant relative freedom is experienced with
ambivalence, because it requires the shouldering of the burden of
one's essential differentness and aloneness.
Caroline's journey did not in the end destroy her marriage, as
sometimes occurs with Venus-Pluto transits, and as she herself
feared . In the dream she and her husband are linked and must go
through the experience together. This suggests that Venus-Pluto
is not concerned so much with separation on a concrete levelas it is
with separation from the fantasy of the ideal husband-father who
will protect one from lifeand adore one enough to enablean escape
from oneself. This psychic separation is, Ifeel, one of the meanings
of Persephone's abduction by Hades, where she is torn from the
loving and protective embrace of the mother who both shelters her
and denies her the possibility of her own womanhood. This
pattern is an archetypal one, a psychic necessity. If one denies or
70
TheAstrologyof Fate
repudiates this fate, then it may be acted out upon one, and nature
then may wear the face of the Erinyes.
The aspects of Mars and Pluto are also linked to sexuality and, I
believe, to a feeling of fatedness, although the sexuality of Mars is
not really concerned with relationship. The coupling of the two
rulers of Scorpio has a reputation in many textbooks for all sorts of
nasty things such as violence and obsessive desire, repression and
cruelty, sadism and rape. The best that is ever said about Mars-
Pluto is that it reflects a powerful will and a profound sense of
self-determination. It might be appropriate to begin an exploration
of Mars-Pluto with some mythic amplification, for Mars is not as
simple as he first appears. He is generally interpreted as a symbol
of masculinity, male directedness, self-assertion, aggression and
competitive instinct. All of this is no doubt true, and the typical
Arlen personality, male or female, usually possesses some share
of these direct and forceful attributes, whether on a physical,
emotional or intellectual plane. But this describes the Arlen side of
Mars. He has another face, his 'night house' as medieval astrology
was wont to callit, and this is the Scorpionic side of the planet; and
he has kinship with Pluto in many ways. Walter F. Otto in The
Homeric Gods gives a fine if unsettling descriptive passage on the
war god Ares, whose Roman name is Mars.
Ares is sketched as a bloodthirsty, raging demon, whose confi-
dence in victory is nothing more than braggadocio compared
with the rational power of an Athene. 'Mad' and 'insane' the
gods call him; he does not know 'what is right', and turns, with
no character, 'now to one and now to another'. To Zeus himself
'no Olympian god is so hated' as he, for 'he thinks only of strife
and wars and battles' ... The figure of Ares derives from the
antiquated earth-religion, where his savagery had its proper
place among other pitiless forces. He is the spirit of imprecation,
vengeance, blood-guilt. As the daimon of bloody slaughter, he
still possesses fearful stature for Homer. His element is man-
slaughter; he is called 'the destroyer', the 'slayer of men'.43
Not a cheerful bedfellow; but then neither is Pluto. According to
Hesiod's cosmogony of the gods, Ares is the parthenogenous son
of Hera the Great Goddess. The birth of Ares occurs because Hera
is infuriated with Zeus; he has had the audacity to generate the
goddess Athene from his head without a female consort, and Hera
must one-up him. To couch this in psychological jargon, Athene is
the anima of Zeus, the feminine wisdom of the male; and Ares is a
rather negative form of the animus of Hera, the fighting spirit of
the female. That Ares is a mother's son immediately relates him to
Hades, who is a mother's phallus. Zeus, in Homer's Iliad, feels that
The Astrological Pluto
71
Ares' proper place is among the Titans banished in the deepest
depths of Tartaros. This war god has no dignity and no honour; he
is of enormous size (700feet tall)and utterly treacherous. In short,
Ares is an image of Hera's outrage.
Ares-Mars is male in the same way that Hades-Pluto is male:
Both are the masculine servants and expressions of an ancient
mother-goddess who emerges from a primordial world view
where the male was subordinate to the ultimate female power of
procreation. Mars and Pluto obey the powers of earth and under-
world rather than heaven. The repulsion that Zeus feels toward
this fatherless god is something I have seen in a good many
'spiritual' men and women, Jupiterians whose loyalties lie with the
realms of logic and intuition and who find this brute daimonic
power terrifying and intrinsically ugly. It is not surprising that
Mars alone can be a problem in a 'light' horoscope full of air. The
growth movement has seized upon this as a primary difficulty in
'getting out your anger', but anger, Iam afraid, is the least of it. It is
no wonder, if one reads Otto's description of Ares-Mars, that a
more cerebral or spiritual type finds the planet uncomfortable.
Uranus also seems to dislike Mars; in myth, the sky god Ouranos is
revolted by his earthy Titan children and banishes them to Tarta-
ros because they are ugly. This is what Zeus would like to do to
Ares, but he does not dare because of Hera's power.
It is interesting to note that the catalogue of nasties attributed to
Ares is earlier given to the feminine deities, just as the underworld
realm originally belongs to Ereshkigal and Hekate before it
becomes the property of Hades. Inanna, the Sumerian Queen of
Heaven whom we have already met, isa battle goddess; Ishtar, her
Babylonian counterpart, likewise; Sekhmet, the Egyptian solar
goddess, is a war leader and mistress of massacre and vengeance;
and even gentle, sensuous Aphrodite, who later becomes the
beloved of the god Ares-Mars, was originally worshipped in
Sparta as a numen of bloody battle. There is something very
primordial about Mars, before we even begin to look at his aspects
to Pluto. Iam not suggesting that there is anything feminine about
him in the ordinary sense. But he seems to represent the masculi-
nity of the body, rather than the masculinity of the spirit, and the
body belongs, ultimately, to the Great Goddess. Ares-Mars
emerges, as Otto suggests, from the earth-religion and the world
of instinct with its primitive deities presided over by the feminine .
Mars belongs to the old matriarchal realm of flesh, rather than the
solar and [upiterian world of mind and spirit. Erich Neumann puts
it as follows:
The Earth Father, lord ofallchthonic forces, belongs psychologi-
72
The Astrology of Fate
cally to the realm of the Great Mother. He manifests himself
most commonly as the overwhelming aggressiveness of phallic
instinct or as a destructive monster. But whenever the ego is
overwhelmed by the sexual, aggressive or power instincts of the
male, or by any other form of instinct, we can see the dominance
of the Great Mother. For she is the instinctual ruler of the
unconscious, mistress ofanimals, and the phallic Terrible Father
is only her satellite, not a masculine principle of equal weight.44
Pluto and Mars in aspect seem to emphasise this chthonic side of
Mars. Ruthlessness, not at all a bad trait in the appropriate
circumstances, is a quality I associate with Mars-Pluto, although
when the two planets are in sextile or trine this ruthlessness seems
to wear a more socially acceptable face and is called 'determi-
nation'. Survival is one of nature's primary goals, and the Mars-
Pluto individual is dedicated to his or her survival. There is often,
also, a kind of cruelty linked with a love of power, particularly
sexual power. That there is a dose link between the erotic and the
bloody, the sexually exciting and the brutal, is something which it
is not always comfortable for the individual with Mars-Pluto to
acknowledge. Venusian eroticism is pleasing and lovely because it
involves expression together, but Martial eroticism involves power
over another, and is unquestionably more likea rape. It is crueller,
more potent and, for some people, more stimulating. As Freud
puts it:
The history of human civilisation shows beyond any doubt that
there is an intimate connection between cruelty and the sexual
instinct; but nothing has been done toward explaining the
connection, apart from laying emphasis on the aggressive factor
in the libido. According to some authorities this aggressive
element of the sexual instinct is in reality a relic of cannibalistic
desires - that is, it is a contribution derived from the apparatus
for obtaining mastery, which is concerned with the satisfaction
of the other and, ontogenetically, the older of the great instinc-
tual needs. 45
Freud, who had Mars and Pluto in quincunx in his birth horo-
scope, must have known a great deal about this dilemma himself.
The sort of 'primitive animus' of which lung writes and which is
personified in the rough, silent, 'natural' man such as Heathdiffe
or the ape-man Tarzan, bears kinship with the qualities of Mars-
Pluto. So too does Caliban, Shakespeare's monstrous bestial male
who is the magician Prospero's dark counterpart in Tile Tempest.
Caliban is also a mother's son, a chthonic creature of earth. D. H.
Lawrence, who had Mars and Pluto in sextile in his birth horo-
scope. infused these same qualities into the character of Mellors
The Astrological Pluto
73
the gamekeeper in Lady Chatterley's Lover. The less redeeming
features of Mars-Pluto may also formulate in the figure of the
rapist, and this image is not an uncommon one in the dreams and
fantasies - if not the actual lives - of those with natal Mars-Pluto
squares, conjunctions and oppositions.
Understandably there is often a deep fear of the more primitive
urges represented by Mars-Pluto aspects, although these appar-
ently ugly male images possess a good deal of wisdom about
survival and fertility, both biological and psychic, which the
winged heaven-gods tend to lack. The violence and passion of
Ares are frightening to the civilised ego, and are easily cut off and
'banished to Tartaros' - in other words, repressed. This can be a
particularly painful issue fora man with Mars-Pluto, because Mars
is bound up with a man's sense of confidence in his own virility
and self-determination. The repudiation of Mars-Pluto because of
its primitiveness frequently results in a sense of impotence, cas-
tration and powerlessness. This leaves a man open to dominance
by women, whereupon he will usually blame his problem on his
mother if he thinks psychologically at all; but the difficulty here is
not so much with the mother as with the repulsion that Zeus feels
toward Ares, or, put more simply, that the intellectually and
spiritually inclined person feels toward his corporeal roots and
fleshly desires. The horoscope ofTimothy S. which Igave earlier is
perhaps revealing in this context, for depression is often an inver-
sion of violent rage; and Timothy was an individual who could not
find any way ofconfronting or finding an outlet for the thing which
consumed him.
Primitive desire is not the entire meaning of Mars-Pluto. There
is another facet to this planetary combination which seems to carry
with it much more of a feeling of 'fatedness'. Mars is by nature an
extroverted god, just as Venus isan extroverted goddess. He seeks
satisfaction of his desires and impulses through outer objects.
Servant of the Great Mother though he may be, his field of activity
is the external world: instinct making itselfeffectivein the environ-
ment through the satisfaction of desire. Pluto, on the other hand,
draws things in and down to his hidden realm, and isin some ways
an image of the introversion of libido or psychic energy. Or, put
another way, Pluto as an image of the dark maternal roots of the
psyche is forever pulling us out of life and back into the womb of
the Mother, either for renewal or death. The regressive tug of
depression, apathy, loss of energy (which the African tribesman
calls 'loss of soul'), despair and death-fantasies, are the feeling
components of this constant pressure to regress and return to the
Mother. Pluto demands a withdrawal of projections and attach-
ments from the upper world. It is this quality which is in part
74
The Astrology of Fate
responsible for the sense of bondage and imprisonment which
accompanies transits and progressions of the planet. One cannot
any longer find gratification outside, either because external cir-
cumstances deny it or because some hidden compulsion or thief
within the psyche steals energy and pulls it down into the uncon-
scious. Pluto is not only a rapist, breaking violently into outer life,
but is also a robber, stealing Persephone and dragging her below
with him. The rapist-robber is a common dream image accom-
panying the onset of depression and loss of interest in life. It is an
equally common image in the dreams which cluster around the
beginning of depth psychotherapy. The rapist-robber heralds the
'abduction' of the ego into the underworld. The myth makes clear,
too, for whom Pluto the male rapist works; for when Hades steals
his bride from her mother Demeter, he escapes into the Great Place
Below through a pathway opened up for him by Gaia, the Earth
Mother. This strange involvement of the Great Mother in her own
daughter's rape (for Gaia and Demeter are so similar that they are
unmistakably one goddess) suggests that the psyche requires this
inward and downward movement for its own purposes, despite
the suffering which is entailed to itself.
Intense frustration is therefore one of the more recognisable of
Mars-Pluto experiences. Passions are forced into introversion, and
often this seems like fate because it is the outer object of desire
which appears to offer the refusal. One cannot have what one
wants so badly in the outer world without the downward journey
as prerequisite; yet the very intensity of the Mars-Pluto combin-
ation guarantees that one will want it very, very badly. Ihave seen
Mars-Pluto people bash their heads again and again on the stone
wall of another's rejection, never relenting, never giving up,
becoming angrier and more vindictive, never relinquishing the
cherished object which some invisible inner law dictates they are
not permitted to have. This so often feels like fate that I can only
assume it isfate. It can be a deeply distressing experience, because
the more the Mars-Pluto person tries to utilise his power and
purpose to coerce the outer world into submission, the more
resistance the outer world offers. Thus the individual colludes
with and perpetrates his own fate, when a more appropriate
response might be to accept what cannot be changed and follow
the pathway into the underworld to discover what the Lady of the
Great Place Below has in mind.
This circle of intense desire and equally intense frustration is, I
feel, one of the reasons why Mars-Pluto is so often repressed.
Certainly it would be rare to find a person who willingly subjected
himself to such pressure. I think it is this pressure which promotes
the suppressed violence of the aspect, inner or outer, or draws
TheAstrological Pluto
75
violence to itself through displacement. If the individual is unable
to make the required sacrifice on the altar of Moira, then the
pressure becomes
unbearable. Mars-Pluto can certainly
be
treacherous and manipulative; any aspect that has connections
with the Great Goddess seems to manifest this shadier face of the
feminine, which has a very different moral code from that of the
sun and Jupiter. The morality of the chthonic world is not based
upon thinking principles or ethics, but on survival and the propa -
gation of the species. From Pluto's point of view, the arguments of
morality are irrelevant. Yet the very qualities which give the
Mars-Pluto person his immense survival capacities are often feltas
repellent because they seem to violate conscious moral codes.
There are many parallels to Mars-Pluto in alchemy, where the
animal of greed and desire and instinctual need - often a wolf,
which belongs to the Goddess and which is portrayed as outcast
and perpetually hungry - is imprisoned within the sealed alembic
and roasted slowly over the fire until it consumes itself and is
transformed. It seems as though Mars-Pluto is often forced to
accept a double-bind: to acknowledge and value the primordial
qualities of nature, yet at the same time to accept frustration in the
expression of those qualities until they have been purified by fire.
It is this aspect in particular which makes me affirm the validity of
[ung's belief that the unconscious wishes to become conscious but
also doesn't, and will only do so at the cost of great conflict and
great effort.
In my experience, Mars-Pluto seems to appear in many people's
dreams as a black man. This is no doubt a symbol appropriate only
to our predominantly white Western culture. This figure of the
black man was also a favourite of the alchemists, who called him
the Ethiopian and believed him to be the prima materia, the crude
stuff of lifeupon which the alchemical work was performed.James
Hillman suggests that one may
consider black persons in dreams in terms of their resemblance
with this underworld context. Their concealing and raping
attributes belong to the 'violating' phenomenology of Hades . ..
just as their pursuit resembles the hounding by the death
demons. They are returning ghosts from the repressed nether-
world - not merely from the repressed ghetto . .. They bring one
down and steal one's 'goods' and menace the ego behind its
locked doors."
The black man and the wolfare typically Plutonian symbols. So too
is the werewolf, that strange creature of Eastern European folk-
lore, which in legend is transformed unwillingly from man to
beast under the full moon and is doomed to devour the thing it
76
The Astrology of Fate
loves. Wagner used the archetypal equation of blacklbestialJ
underworld in his character of Alberich the Dwarf. In the Ring
cycle, this figure is called 'black Alberich'; his realm of Niebelheim
is the Plutonian underworld; and he stands in stark counterpoint
to Wotan the sky god, ruler of the heavenly Valhalla. Figures such
as Alberich embody the raw, primal, savage, greedy, ruthless
natural man who in potential contains the seeds of gold. In Das
Rheingold, it is Alberich, not Wotan, who through ruthless abjur-
ation of love seizes power over the gold and forges it into a ring of
power. Likewise, in Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, it is the dark lord
Sauron who possesses not only the evil but also the strength to
make and wield the One Ring. In jung's view, the black man and
the wolf are images of the unconscious itself - raw nature, full of
affect and conflict, which gives birth to the ego and then struggles
with it in the long process of individual and collective develop-
ment. I have encountered these and similar motifs so often in the
dreams of my chart clients and analysands - particularly those
with Mars-Pluto aspects - that it has compelled me to consider the
black-white conflicts in the outer world as, in part, exteriorisations
of a deep internal dilemma between intellectualised Western
consciousness and its primordial roots. The apartheid of South
Africa is a favourite and highly emotive theme in the dreams of
many people who are not in any way directly involved and
frequently ill-informed, and the intense affect surrounding issues
such as this one certainly suggest a degree of unconscious projec-
tion or identification between a colIective external issue and a
deeply internal one. I think this motif throws some light on
Mars-Pluto and the conflicts such an aspect can provoke.
Sometimes the fate of Mars-Pluto is physical rape. In making
this statement I am not in any way implying that if one has a
Mars-Pluto aspect in the birth chart, then being raped - or becom-
ing a rapist - is an inevitable 'result'. But there seems to be a
relationship between the aspect and the concrete experience of
rape. This subject is so emotionally charged, particularly in the
wake of the feminist movement, that it would be much easier if I
avoided it. But rape belongs to the Mars-Pluto realm and therefore
must be mentioned here. We have already met the symbolic motif
of the rapist in Pluto himself. This motif has more of a tendency to
externalise itself when Mars joins him, perhaps because of the
intense pressure of anger and frustration which so often accom-
panies the more difficult aspects. As a woman I cannot pretend to
be wholly objective about this issue. But although feelings of
profound rage and humiliation are to be expected in women when
confronted with such an act of violence and violation, these
feelings do not help us to understand why rape overtakes some
TheAstrological Pluto
77
women and not others. The voice of extreme feminism suggests
that rape is an exclusively male barbarity visited upon helpless
and blameless female victims, typical of the brutality displayed by
men against women throughout history. The voice of our [udaeo-
Christian culture, dominated by its patriarchal deity, suggests that
it is women who are to blame, either because of the ingrained
belief that the individual woman has provoked it, or because -
more irrational still - some part of the collective psyche, in both
men and women, still equates the feminine with the sexual and
therefore with sin. This is perhaps why guilt, rather than mur-
derous rage, is so often the immediate emotional response of the
woman who has been raped, and why the passage of a rape case
through the courts is such a profoundly humiliating experience for
the victim.
These two extreme viewpoints may shed considerable light on
the archetypal problems between men and women in terms of
their anger towards each other, but both extremes become quite
useless when considered in relation to the individual. I am
too aware of the phenomenon of unconscious collusion, and of
the enormous difficulty in making any meaningful connections
between oneself and an apparently random and unprovoked
'outside' event, to lay blame in too cavalier a fashion on either
masculine or feminine in this ambiguous issue. There may well be
a social issue in rape; rapists, according t9 some surveys, tend to
come from difficult and underprivileged or emotionally sterile
backgrounds. But there is also the evidence of astrology, which
implies that there is an individual issue as well. It is worth
attempting to look at rape from a more objective standpoint, for I
have seen too many Mars-Pluto contacts in the charts of women
who have been raped - on one level or another - to ignore the fact
that there may be something in the psyche which draws such
experiences. One might even call that 'something' fate.
Rapist and victim are connected by a shared experience, and
perhaps they share something else as well: a psych ic background
reflected by the Mars-Pluto constellation. Bradley Te Paske, in his
extremely insightful book, Rape and Ritual: A Psychological Study,
begins by quoting some of the recent American studies on rape ,
and points out that approximately one-third of the rapists investi-
gated had themselves been subjected to some sexual trauma in
their youth. Often these offences were perpetrated by the mother,
and the implication here is clear. Rape and allied aggressive sexual
acts are not exclusively the prerogative of the barbaric male, unless
'mille' is extended to include the animus as well; and the theme of
aggressor and victim together can relate to one individual.
Te Paske then examines the Hades-Persephone myth, and has
78
The Astrology of Fate
obviously been struck by the strange involvement of the mother-
goddess in her own daughter's rape. He quotes lung's work on
'The Psychological Aspects of the Kore':
The maiden's helplessness exposes her to all sorts of dangers,
for instance of being devoured by reptiles or rituaUy slaughtered
like a beast of sacrifice. Often there are bloody, cruel, even
obscene orgies to which the innocent child falls victim. Some-
times it is a true nekyia, a descent into Hades and a quest for the
'treasure hard to attain', occasionally connected with orgiastic
rites or offerings of menstrual blood to the moon. Oddly
enough, the various tortures and obscenities are carried out by
an 'Earth Mother'. 47
There is a very disturbing implication in this mythic theme. It
seems to be the Great Mother herself, in her phallic form as Hades,
who is the rapist; and the rape is perpetrated upon her virginal and
incipiently erotic daughter. Te Paske suggests that this situation
reflects a basic conflict between the instinctual maternal feminine
and the individualised erotic feminine, a conflict which, ifit is great
enough, can lead to the imagery and perhaps even the experience
of rape.
Following is the dream of a woman with whom I worked
analytically for a short time. The analysis was interrupted when
she decided to move to Germany with her husband, who had been
born in that country. This woman, whom I will caU Angela, had
experienced rape at the hands of her stepfather when she was
eight years old, and twice more, both times at the hands of
strangers, while in her teens. Despite these experiences she had
managed to form a close and fulftlling relationship with her
husband, but the sexual side of the marriage left a great deal to be
desired, primarily because of Angela's quite understandable but
extremely distressing fear of losing control. In her birth chart, the
conjunction of Mars, Saturn and Pluto which we have already met
in the horoscope of Timothy S. appears in the seventh house.
I am in a room with a very pretty young girl of about sixteen,
who is dressed in a white bridal gown. She is golden-haired,
blue-eyed and very flirtatious, a sort of 'daddy's girl' . There is a
dark, very tormented young man who is in love with her. He is
possessed by some terrible violence, and wants to drive a knife
through the girl's heart. He cannot help himself. He plunges the
knife into her breast, and blood spurts everywhere. The girl is
dying, and staggers into my arms. I must hold her while she
undergoes her death agony. Suddenly I notice an older woman
sitting in the room. She is large and very dark, and sits watching
The Astrological Pluto
79
with a strangely satisfied look. I realise with horror that this is
the girl's mother, and that she has either made the young man
commit the murder or at best condones it, because she does
nothing to help.
This dream, which is a thinly disguised enactment of the Hades-
Persephone myth, portrays the phallus as a knife, performing the
act of death-marriage while the Great Mother looks on. Itseems to
reveal a good deal about the unconscious patterns at work within a
woman who has been exposed more than once to rape. Angela was
only a child when she was first raped, and could hardly be blamed
for being 'provocative' in any literal sense, although most children
'try on' their incipient sexuality in the course of normal develop-
ment. Yet there is a fate at work here. When speaking of the very
painful issue of her childhood experience, Angela gave voice to a
sentiment which I have heard on several other occasions from
women who have been subjected to childhood rape: unconscious-
ly, there is a feeling that the mother is in some way to blame. This
may defy any rational consideration of the objective familycircum-
stances, yet the feeling may be a strong one and may persist
despite the sense of guilt it provokes. When Angela began to
express this feeling as a fantasy, she experienced her mother as
secretly fostering the rape, or carefully turning a blind eye to its
occurrence, because it kept the husband quiet. Such a fantasy may
have no backup in terms of actual behaviour or intention, but in
Angela's case it seems that she perceived some unconscious
undercurrent at work within the family situation. The sense of
having no protection against the terrifying force of the rapist, and
the conviction that this reflectsan omission or even an intention on
the part of the mother, is one of the deepest wounds around the
issue of childhood rape, and is in many ways as painful as the
physical act itself because of the profound feeling of betrayal.
Whether this reflects a convoluted and deeply unconscious family
collusion or an archetypal 'meaning', it is still a fate.
Angela'sdream isnot only about whathappened to her body; itis
also a dream of initiation occurring at a time when she stood on the
threshold of relinquishing her terror ofpenetration by life.It points
both backwards and forwards, not only raising the issue of the
mother's collusion, but also highlighting the necessity ofa sacrifice
of the 'virginal' innocence which she clung to as her only defence
against the terrible rage within. That she is able to hold the dying
girl and contain her death agonies in the dream is an augury that
Angela had the strength to deal with whatever emotions might
burst forth. This in fact turned out to be the case, and the eruption
of rage towards the mother released a good deal of the sexual
80
TheAstrology of Fate
inhibition that had plagued her . Her anger towards her stepfather
was conscious, but expressing it had not helped her. It was only
when she confronted the issue of her mother that any change or
healing could begin to occur.
Te Paske is primarily concerned in his book with the psychology
of the rapist, and with the significance of such a theme when it
appears in the dreams and fantasies of men who are not inclined to
act it out yet who encounter it as an inner event. The conclusion he
draws is that rape is a manifestation of the masculine libido
struggling against the stifling and suffocating grip of the un-
conscious imaged as Great Mother. Thus dreams of rape may not
necessarily represent anything pathological, but may occur as
images of a process of developing individuality. The rapist, on the
other hand, is, in Te Paske's view, usually mother-bound, and
seeks both revenge against the feminine and salvation through his
victim during the act of rape. This is why, despite the violence and
callousness of the act, so many rapists ask their victims whether
their love-making was any good .
Be the person a Charles Manson, a rapist of lesser criminal
instinct, or just another conquering male, the influence of the
negative aspect of the mother plays an important role in his
psychology . .. by viewing the psychic background of rape in
terms of the pervasive fear of, and simultaneous falling under
the power of, the negative aspect of the feminine, one major
factor alone is ernphasised.t"
Later in the book he phrases this conclusion even more succinctly:
In a profound sense rape attempts psychological matricide. But
when the mother is too powerfully internal and too deeply
unconscious to be confronted as an inner problem, the outer
woman falls victim to the concrete assertion of masculine
power. 49
This assertion of masculine power and virility struggling with
the castrating and devouring face of the feminine unconscious is,
in astrological language, represented by Mars in conflict with
Pluto. It is understandable enough in terms of masculine psychol-
ogy. But the woman who is the victim of rape often has the
Mars-Pluto constellation. The implication here is that the same
drama enacts itself within her psyche, and externalises itself in the
concrete experience of rape, although she is more likely (although
not invariably) to play the role of the victim. What does this mean
for the individual woman? Perhaps it is a way of expressing the
problem of her own initiative and creative potential (which lung
calls the animus), held in the grip of the instinctual mother. Or, put
TheAstrological Pluto
81
another way, she is in a sense the innocent inheritor of a problem
within the mother and the family, and is 'fated' to be the sacrifice
which the mother unconsciously offers up to resolve her own
dilemma between maternity and sexuality, or between blind
instinctual life and individual self-expression.
In such a situation, rape is the enactment of something which
has not been internally integrated yet which has built up enormous
pressure within the family psyche. If the figure of Mars-Pluto is
powerful within the family or within the individual, yet is re-
pressed too forcibly, then it may break out as an exterior fate.
Forensic psychiatry is unpleasantly familiar with the difficult
problem of assessing an accusation of rape, for some are clear-cut
but many more are highly ambiguous. Often the woman claims
she has been raped, the man claims he has been invited, the couple
know each other and perhaps have been lovers in the past, and the
comforting panacea of moral outrage and blame - towards either
party - disappears into the uneasy feeling that there is a strange
unconscious collusion between rapist and victim. In the case of a
child victim, or rape by an unknown assailant, this seems an
outrageous implication. But perhaps the collusion exists on some
level in the unconscious, and its roots lie further back than the
individual. I have the feeling, from what I have seen of this aspect
running through the horoscopes of families, that Mars-Pluto can
imply an ancestral inheritance rather than a strictly individual
problem of 'attracting' rape . It may be a family daimon: a turbulent
and
vital
sexual
energy
that
successive
generations
have
attempted to crush and exclude because of their dependence upon
respectability or socially acceptable values, or because the Great
Mother dominates the psychology of the family. Then someone
gets elected, unconsciously, as the scapegoat, and becomes the
rapist or the one raped. Seen as an issue between mother and
daughter, rape becomes something much more complex than a
social issue. Te Paske is illuminating in his interpretation of Mars:
Appropriate particularly to the theme of rape is Mars in that this
figure embodies the brute, warlike and aggressive nature of man
standing opposed to, and yet in love with, Aphrodite. lung
states that Mars (Ares) may be considered as 'the principle of
individuation in the strict sense'. This 'strict sense' denotes the
individuating principle as hot, violent, sulphurous. Mars re£re-
sents power and anger in rudimentary and concrete form.
In other words, Mars within a woman is no different from Mars
within a man: it is the urge to actualise one's individual identity in
the world. Rape as the manifestation of unconscious collusion
between mother and daughter and rapist thus suggests the mother
82
The Astrology of Fate
avenging herself against the daughter's urge to develop as a
separate individual, or the mother fighting her own urge to
develop as projected upon her young daughter. Rape as the
manifestation of unconscious collusion between woman and rapist
suggests something similar: the unconscious retaliating against
the individual's urge to develop too far away from its maternal
roots.
I am reminded here of the dream of another analysand, a young
woman in her early twenties, whom I will call Ruth. She experi-
enced many dreams of the figure of the rapist during the course of
the first year of analysis. She was not a victim of childhood rape, at
least not in concrete form, but was subjected to it in her relation-
ship with a violent lover. This is a terribly common experience of
rape, but such cases never arrive in court for obvious reasons.
Gradually during the analysis it became apparent that this violent
animus, who often assumed the most brutal and sadistic guises in
Ruth's dreams, was connected as much with her own unexpressed
rage and aggression as he was with her external lover. This
suppressed rage Ruth tended to turn upon herself, 'raping' her
own value with thoughts of worthlessness and badness. Had she
been a more aggressive or harder personality, this animus would
no doubt have been directed outward against others; but she is a
gentle and sensitive woman, deeply introverted, and extremely
idealistic in her values. Thus the inner rapist directed his destruc-
tion towards her own sense of individuality. It also became appar-
ent that this rapist belonged as much to her parents and their
marital dynamics as it did to her. In one early dream he appeared
specifically as 'in the service of' her mother, who was herself an
illegitimate child with a severely impoverished early life. This
mother carried within herself an enormous and quite violent anger
which never surfaced except in scenes of weeping and mundane
marital quarrels, and in outbursts of destructive criticism against
her daughter. This is truly Hera's outrage, passed down from
mother to daughter as a psychic inheritance. Ruth's Mars, repre-
senting her own individual and creative potential, was completely
in the grip of the mother. The father was a retired army officer, and
although he was described as 'weak' in relation to his daughter, he
expressed violence regularly to his sons, and perpetrated a species
of covert emotional violence on Ruth. Not surprisingly, in Ruth's
horoscope Mars is in square to Pluto, Mars being conjunct the
midheaven - the point in the chart which pertains to the inher-
itance from the mother. Following is the dream:
I am in a room with an angry, dangerous black man. I recognise
him immediately from other dreams. I am terribly frightened. I
The Astrological Pluto
83
try to talk to him, and ask him why he is pursuing me. He says,
'If you show hatred to me, I will show hatred to you .'
This dream, in the light of what we have been exploring, is so
transparent that it needs no interpretation. It is concerned not so
much with the roots of the problem as with a potential way of
dealing with it. Here the unconscious, which on the one hand
portrays itself as a violent pursuer, is on the other hand offering a
means of reconciliation to the ego. This 'dangerous man' cannot be
reduced simply to an aggressive aspect of the dreamer. He is much
more than that. He is the 'principle of individuation in the strict
sense', and he is asking for a parley; and he is presumably
pursuing her because she has not yet removed herself from
identification with the mother's psyche. He is also an image of
powerful family anger and creative potential, bottled up forseveral
generations and formulating in a frightening way in Ruth's own
psyche - and in her external life. He is, of course, her own anger as
well, for she was carrying considerable rage towards men,
inverted and acted out as a self-destructive pattern within her
relationship life. Pluto, which is involved in the square to Mars, is
placed in the twelfth house in the birth chart, which Ifeelconcerns,
among other things, the ancestral
past, unseen 'causes' or
pressures which have slowly accumulated before the individual's
own birth (represented by the ascendant) and lying hidden behind
the individual personality. Sometimes the twelfth house is called
the 'house of karma', but what then is karma, if not the chain of
unseen causes which pass from generation to generation and bear
fruit in the present lifeof the individual? One does not necessarily
have to believe in reincarnation to understand karma, or fate, in
this sense; nor is it mutually exclusive with reincarnation either.
The violent black man in the dream seems to embody an entire
family complex, an inherited fate. This fate has fallen upon Ruth to
deal with, and deal with it she must if she is not to remain
victimised by it. In dealing with it she unlocks her own freedom of
development, for he is the goad which drives her out of the
parental web and into her own creative life. It would seem that she
cannot repudiate this inner rapist as her parents did, by passing it
on to the next generation. Fate has, it seems, not only descended
upon her in an apparently cruel and difficult way; it is also asking
her for its own transformation and release. Ruth is the scapegoat,
the carrier of what Hillman calls 'retributive justice connected with
ancestral sins'. She has done nothing to 'deserve' this fate; she is a
person of great honesty and integrity, and I am not prepared to
make the blithe and, it seems to me, arrogant assumption that she
must have committed some crime in a former life. I do not know if
84
The Astrology ofFate
she has had a former life, nor does she; and even ifIwere convinced
of this, it would not help her to integrate this family daimon into her
present life. Nor am I prepared to assign any conscious responsi-
bility. This is much more than a 'potential' or 'trend' implied by a
planetary pattern. She has literally had no choice. If there is an
issue of personal responsibility connected with such things, then it
can only liein the burden - taken on unwillingly - of trying to bring
into consciousness something which the ego can in no sense be
blamed for creating. Had Ruth been older, one might have looked
at the 'lopsidedness' of herconscious attitude with some suspicion.
But she has not yet matured enough to have a firm conscious atti-
tude. As long as this young woman is caught in the family web, and
attempts to cast the rapist with his rampant, vital sexuality into
Tartaros, he will pursue her in dreams and in life, and she is
'doomed' to destructive relationships.
The violent man underwent many permutations since the early
dream mentioned above; and so did Ruth herself. What made this
possible is a great mystery, and one which we shall explore more
fully later. Although the themes of abuse and rape continued at
intervals in her dreams, the entire pattern slowly began to change,
and Ruth was no longer a mere passive recipient. The man began to
appear in more helpful guise, guiding or supporting her, as she
began to make a relationship with this primitive piece of psychic
life. Eventually she extricated herself from the destructive external
relationship, through which she acted out the dissociated figure of
the rapist. The termination of that bond occurred after a dream
where the black man appeared and asked her to killand eat him. To
eat something, in a dream or fairy tale, implies digesting it, making
it conscious and building it into the framework of one's own life.
The theme of cannibalism abounds in Greek myth, and it is always
punished rigorously by the gods, for they are jealous of their
powers and strive to prevent the heroic ego from growing too fat on
stolen meat. Evidently the unconscious is implying through this
dream that the battle is nearly over; it is time to take responsibility
for this figure through a sacrifice of the painful but nonetheless
easier path of enlisting another person to act it out. Here there is no
threatened punishment from the gods, but an accord between
conscious and unconscious. This dream marked the beginning of a
resolution of some of the more extreme problems inherent in the
natal Mars-Pluto square.
Ruth first came to see me when this square was being triggered
by the long transit of Uranus in opposition to Mars and in square to
Pluto. Once again, Uranus implies the potential of breakthrough
and realisation of something which has previously been un-
conscious and compulsive. The outcome of this transit of Uranus
The Astrological Pluto
85
was far more edifying than the outcome for Timothy S., but it is
difficult to understand why. I have given Ruth's example because
it isan excellent paradigm ofsome of the difficulties of Mars-Pluto,
for which there are no easy solutions. Perhaps there are no
solutions at all, but only compromises, for there is no way that the
Mars-Pluto individual can repudiate the primitive elements in his
psyche. Individual development seems, with these aspects, to
require a collision with that which opposes such a development,
and reconciliation is possible only ifthe individual himself changes
- 'dies', in a sense, at the moment of 'marriage'. Ican only assume
that if we are given such aspects in the birth chart, then they
constitute a fate and an opportunity for the individual to restore
dignity and value to something long ago ruled outcast.
The few descriptions I have given ofsome of the aspects of Pluto
are not, as I warned, intended to provide easy interpretations for
the astrologer. They are intended to illustrate a theme, and they
are single examples of a story which I have heard enough times to
be convinced that it is the primary story of Pluto. The Dark Mother
of which Pluto is our astrological symbol - the world of womb,
underworld, tomb, unconscious, instinct - is that ancient power
which the Greeks called Moira, and she is alive and well in the
twentieth century in forms which perhaps require the language of
depth psychology to comprehend. Moira is certainly a vengeful
goddess if the bright light ofego-consciousness repudiates her and
disregards her allotted boundaries. What is harder to accept is that
she will visit her vengeance upon the children of erring parents.
But perhaps, from a deeper perspective, this is not so 'unfair' as it
sounds, since the individual is part of, and emerges from, a family
and racial and collective human background and therefore inherits
the problems and gifts of the whole . This is not so very different
from the religious idea that we 'inherit' sin from Adam, and are
therefore culpable although we may not be individually culpable;
or that we, as in Bach's St Matthew Passion, are simultaneously
Judas, the vengeful crowd, Pilate, and the crucified Christ all at
once. Aspects from the inner planets to Pluto seem to reflect the
necessity to live in peace with Moira's allotments. Ifthe aspects are
harmonious ones, then this task is made easier, for one tends to be
more flexible about accommodating natural law and the more
primitive side of oneself and life. If the aspects are difficult, the
same innate potential is present, but it cannot be actualised
without some struggle and a collision with the unconscious
psyche, which feels like a rape and a death. The nature of Moira as
symbolised by Pluto includes all·the demands of instinct: the body
and its appetites. the sexual drive, the aggressive and destructive
impulses. What Freud meant by the id with its ambivalent sexual
86
The Astrology of Fate
and destructive urges, which he called Eros and Thanatos, is not
very far away from our ancient goddess. The needs of the instinc-
tual man, if Pluto is strong in the horoscope, cannot be avoided
without retaliation, and the retaliation often takes the form of
possession by the very thing one has been trying to avoid; but, as
in the case of Ruth, it may first appear 'outside'. Yet if this
primordial power is acknowledged, however 'negative' or 'lower'
we may first feel it to be, then something seems to happen to both
ego and unconscious. One of the boons of Pluto, so far as I have
seen, is a capacity for survival and a tough inner core which may
not always be 'kind' or 'selfless', but is a good deal more effective in
life, and is not frightened by separation, suffering or death.
I have connected the planet Pluto with the particular aspect of
fate that the Greeks imaged as a dark, ancient and stern goddess.
There are other, broader sf..•eres where we might also look at this
goddess, besides the particular planet we have been examining.
Pluto points back to family fate, but family fate in the largest sense
can only be discerned ifwe examine the dynamics and horoscopes
of the family. This is the next sphere in which we might gain
further insight into the nature of feminine fate. I would first like to
end this chapter with a fairy tale. The ancient goddess Moira
makes her appearance here too, although her primordial majesty is
dimmed and it might take a moment's reflection to recognise her.
The tale of MotherHolle is perhaps a fitting summation, in fairy tale
language, of Moira as Pluto. When I first encountered this tale,
which is one collected by the Grimm Brothers, I wondered what
the name Holle might mean. But inquiries into German dictiona-
ries and from German-speaking friends yielded no answers. No
one knew what the word meant. Only much later, by chance, I
discovered that Holle is an archaic German word which means
Hell.
MOTHER HOLLE5t
There was once a widow who had two daughters - one of whom
was pretty and industrious, whilst the other was ugly and idle. But
she was much fonder of the ugly and idle one, because she was her
own daughter; and the other, who was a stepdaughter, was
obliged to do all the work, and be the Cinderella of the house.
Every day the poor girl had to sit by a well, in the highway, and
spin till her fingers bled.
Now it happened that one day the shuttle was marked with her
blood, so she dipped it into the weIl, to wash the mark off; but it
dropped out of her hand and fell to the bottom. She began to weep,
and ran to her stepmother and told her of the mishap. But she
The Astrological Pluto
87
scolded her sharply, and was so merciless as to say: 'Since you
have let the shuttle fall in, you must fetch it out again:
So the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do;
and in the sorrow of her heart she jumped into the well to get the
shuttle. She lost her senses; and when she awoke and came to
herself again, she was in a lovely meadow where the sun was
shining and many thousands of flowers were growing. Across this
meadow she went, and at last came to a baker's oven full of bread,
and the bread cried out: 'Oh, take me out! take me out! or I shall
burn; I have been baked a long time!' Soshe went up to it, and took
out all the loaves one after another with the bread-shovel. After
that she went on tillshe came to a tree covered with apples, which
called to her: 'Oh, shake me! shake me! we apples are all ripe!' So
she shook the tree till the apples felllike rain, and went on shaking
till they were all down, and when she had gathered them into a
heap, she went on her way.
At last she came to a little house, out of which an old woman
peeped; but she had such large teeth that the girl was frightened,
and was about to run away. But the old woman called out to her:
'What are you afraid of, dear child? Stay with me; if you will do all
the work in the house properly, you shall be the better for it. Only
you must take care to make my bed well, and to shake it
thoroughly till the feathers fly- for then there is snow on the earth.
I am Mother Holle.'
As the old woman spoke so kindly to her, the girl took courage
and agreed to enter her service. She attended to everything to the
satisfaction of her mistress, and always shook her bed so vigor-
ously that the feathers flew about like snowflakes. So she had a
pleasant life with her; never an angry word; and to eat she had
boiled or roast meat every day .
She stayed some time with Mother Holle, before she became
sad . At first she did not know what was the matter with her, but
found at length that it was homesickness; although she was many
thousand times better off here than at home, still she had a longing
to be there. At last she said to the old woman: 'I have a longing for
home; and however well off I am down here, I cannot stay any
longer; I must go up again to my own people.' Mother Holle said: '1
am pleased that you long for your home again, and as you have
served me so truly, Imyself will take you up again .' Thereupon she
took her by the hand, and led her to a large door. The door was
opened, and just as the maiden was standing beneath the
doorway, a heavy shower of golden rain fell, and all the gold clung
to her, so that she was completely covered over with it.
'You shall have that because you have been so industrious,' said
Mother Holle; and at the same time she gave her back the shuttle
88
The Astrology of Fate
which she had let fall into the well. Thereupon the door closed,
and the maiden found herself up above upon the earth, not far
from her mother's house.
And as she went into the yard the cock was sitting on the well,
and cried:
'Cock-a-doodle-doo!
Yourgolden girl'scome back to you!'
So she went in to her mother, and as she arrived thus covered with
gold, she was well received, both by her and her sister.
The girl told all that had happened to her; and as soon as the
mother heard how she had come by so much wealth, she was very
anxious to obtain the same good luck for the ugly and lazy
daughter. She had to seat herself by the well and spin; and in order
that her shuttle might be stained with blood, she stuck her hand
into a thorn bush and pricked her finger. Then she threw the
shuttle into the well, and jumped in after it.
She came, like the other, to the beautiful meadow and walked
along the very same path. When she got to the oven the bread
again cried: 'Oh, take me out! take me out! or I shall bum; I have
been baked a long time!' But the lazy thing answered: 'As if I had
any wish to make myself dirty!' and on she went. She soon came to
the apple tree, which cried: 'Oh, shake me! shake me! we apples
are all ripe!' But she answered: '1like that! One of you might fallon
my head,' and so went on. When she came to Mother Holle's
house she was not afraid, for she had already heard of her big
teeth, and she hired herself to her immediately.
The first day she forced herself to work diligently, and obeyed
Mother Holle when she told her to do anything, for she was think-
ing of all the gold that she would give her. Buton the second day she
began to be lazy, and on the third day still more so, and then she
would not get up in the morning at all. Neither did she make
Mother Holle's bed as she ought, and did not shake it so as to make
the feathers fly up . Mother Holle was soon tired of this, and gave
her notice to leave. The lazy girl was willing enough to go, and
thought that now the golden rain would come. Mother Holle led
her also to the great door; but while she was standing beneath it,
instead of the gold a big kettleful of pitch was emptied over her.
That is the reward for your service,' said Mother Holle, and shut
the door.
So the lazy girl went home; but she was quite covered with pitch,
and the cock on the well, as soon as he saw her, cried out:
'Cock-a-doodle-doot
Your dirtygirl'scome back to you!'
But the pitch clung fast to her, and could not be got off as long as
she lived.
4
Fate and the Family
Neverbelieve fate's more than thecondensation of childhood.
Rainer Mana Rilke
There was once a King of Lydia called Tantalos, a son of Zeus.
Because of his divine birth and his boundless wealth, Tantalos
became afflicted with hubris, and believed himself to be cleverer
than the gods. In his madness he mocked them, by inviting them
to a banquet in his city of Sipylos. Here he dared to set on the
banquet table before the Olympians the best he had togive:the flesh
of his own son Pelops, whom he had cut up and cooked in a
cauldron. Thus he intended to test the omniscience of the immor-
tals. But the gods, save for Demeter, knew of the sin, and refrained
from eating. Rhea the Earth Mother, wife of Kronos, put the
portions together again and made the child rise from the cauldron.
Hermes recalled him to life, and Clotho, one of the Moirai,
permitted it because she had not yet determined the time of the
child's death.
The boy rose up more beautiful than he had been before. But he
had one shoulder made of ivory, because the goddess Demeter
had
eaten
this
portion unknowingly. For that
reason
the
descendants of the house of Pelops were distinguished by a
birthmark, an unusually white shoulder or a star on the same part.
In punishment for his sin against the gods, Tantalos was
confined for eternity in Tartaros, the darkest abyss of the under-
world. There he was stood in a pool, with the water reaching his
chin; he was tormented by thirst, but could not drink, for when he
bent down, the water disappeared. Fruit trees dangled their riches
over his head, but when he reached up to grasp the fruit in his
hunger, the wind whisked it away . And on his descendants the
curse of the Erinyes hung, for the evil had not yet been spent.
Pelops ruled as a great king with the favour of the gods, and the
curse passed him by. He fathered three male children. The two
90
TheAstrology of Fate
elder ones were called Atreus and Thyestes, and these sons
inherited the evil of their grandfather Tantalos. They murdered
their younger brother Chrysippos, Pelops' favourite child. So their
father cursed them and their descendants.
Atreus married a woman called Aerope, but his wife deceived
him with his brother Thyestes. Before Atreus could avenge
himself, however, events in the wider world interfered. The
people of the city of Mykenai summoned the brothers, for an oracle
had bidden the city to make king a son of Pelops. A quarrel broke
out between the brothers as to who should take the throne of
Mykenai, and Atreus drove Thyestes out and became king. But his
lust for vengeance against his brother was not yet satisfied, for the
thought still rankled that Thyestes had shared Aerope's bed .
Atreus invited his brother back to Mykenai, saying that he wished
for a reconciliation. But secretly he planned a horrible revenge. He
slew Thyestes' children, and invited his brother to eat unwittingly
of the roasted viscera and boiled flesh. When Thyestes realised
what he had eaten, he fell backwards, vomited up his meal,
dashed the table over with his foot, and pronounced a curse upon
the house of Atreus.
There were now three curses waiting to descend upon the line of
Atreus: that of the gods against the children of Tantalos, that of
Pelops against his son's progeny, and that of Thyestes against his
brother's line. Atreus had two sons by Aerope, called Agamemnon
and Menelaos. Thyestes, after his own sons had been butchered,
had left to him only a daughter. But he received a message from
Apollo's oracle at Delphi bidding him to raise up an avenger for the
murder of his children. So he raped his daughter, and raised the
son of the union, called Aegisthos, nurturing him in exile with
dreams of vengeance against Atreus' line.
Menelaos became King of Mykenai after Atreus, and his brother
Agamemnon became King of Argos. They were wedded to two
sisters, Helen and Klytaemnestra, daughters of King Tyndareos of
Sparta. Through Helen's infidelity to Menelaos with a Trojan
prince, the Trojan War began; and both Menelaos and Agamem-
non became war-leaders who led the Greek armies to sack the city
of the enemy.
When Agamemnon travelled to the assembly of allied kings to
lead the Greek forces, he left behind with his wife Klytaemnestra
two daughters and a son called Orestes. The elder and more
beautiful of the daughters was named Iphigenia; the younger,
Elektra. While assembling the Greek fleet at Aulis to embark for
Troy, Agamemnon had occasion to offend the goddess Artemis
because of a prideful boast he made in her sacred wood . The angry
goddess accordingly sent bad weather, and the Greek ships could
Fate and the Family
91
not sail. A seer informed Agamemnon that Artemis would be
placated only ifhe sacrified his daughter Iphigenia on the goddess'
altar. So Agamemnon deceived his wife by saying that his daugh-
ter would be married at Aulis, and slew the child to win the
goddess' favour.
When Klytaemnestra discovered that her beloved child had
been slaughtered by Agamemnon, she swore revenge. She took as
a lover that same Aegisthos who was the son of Thyestes by his
own daughter. First she sent her son Orestes into exile, so that he
could not defend his father. Then, when Agamemnon returned
triumphant from the Trojan War, she and Aegisthos butchered
him in his bath, and she set up Aegisthos as her consort to rule
Argos with her.
Orestes had been banished to Phokis. The god Apollo visited
him there, and commanded him to return to Argos to avenge his
father's death, threatening dire punishments if he attempted to
shirk the deed. So Orestes returned in disguise, and plotted in
secret with his sister Elektra. First they murdered Aegisthos, their
mother's lover, and then Orestes stabbed his own mother to death.
Although Orestes had obeyed the command of the god Apollo,
he had violated the law of the Erinyes, defenders of mother-right
and avengers of the murder of blood-kin. So the Erinyes pursued
Orestes all over Greece and drove him horribly mad . Eventually he
begged sanctuary before .the altar of the goddess Athene at
Athens. Athene, taking pity on him yet recognising also the right
of the Erinyes to their prey, placed the case before the supreme
court at Athens. Both Apollo and the Erinyes pleaded their causes
before the human judges. When the vote was taken, it was equal;
so Athene placed her deciding vote on the side of Orestes, and
offered the Erinyes in exchange an altar and honourable worship
in her land . The Erinyes were afterward called Eumenides, 'the
kindly ladies', and Orestes returned a free man to Argos and
married Harmonia the daughter of Menelaos and Helen. So the
curse on the line of Tantalos was spent.
One wonders what a family therapist would think of this tale if
Orestes turned up as the 'identified patient' with his presenting
symptom of psychotic breakdown. Yetit is just this kind of tale that
families do tell, although not usually in such florid terms as
matricide and quarrels between the gods. The psychological
equivalents, however, are often similar. Families are organisms,
and the psychic lifeof an enmeshed family isa closed circle within
which ancient and often violent emotional dramas are enacted in
the secret darkness of the unconscious. Nothing is seen until the
'disturbed' child is taken for professional help, and then, terribly
92
The Astrologyof Fate
slowly and often against strenuous opposition, the threads that
weave the tale are disentangled and what looked likean individual
'illness' becomes increasingly apparent as an unresolved family
complex. We have met facets of this problem already in the two
examples I gave of Venus-Pluto and Mars-Pluto, for in the lives of
both Caroline and Ruth, the sexual and emotional difficulties of the
parents and grandparents are somehow 'passed on' to the child,
and work as a fate in the child's life. Pluto is a particular significator
of a particular kind of experience: Moira as the Terrible Mother,
seeking vengeance for the violation or repression of her laws.
Problems of a sexual nature, or of an instinctual nature generally,
seem represented as family complexes by Pluto. But other things
besides instinctual conflicts pass down through families, and these
can bear a creative as well as a destructive face. Myth is once again
of immense value as a source of insight into the archetypal patterns
which dominate families generation after generation. The image of
the family curse, so beloved in Greek myth, is a vivid portrayal of
what passes unseen down the family line, and embodies the
experience of family fate.
A family is a system, as the relatively new field of family therapy
has revealed. As Salvador Minuchin puts it:
The individual who lives within a family is a member of a social
system to which he must adapt. His actions are governed by the
characteristics of the system, and these characteristics include
the effects of his own past actions. The individual responds to
stresses in other parts of the system, to which he adapts; and he
may contribute significantly to stressing other members of the
system. The individual can be a subsystem, or gart of the
system, but the whole must be taken into account.
Although much of the work of family therapy concerns itself with
the present family situation in which the individual finds himself-
and also with the present interactions and patterns which are at
work - nevertheless the 'system' of which Minuchin speaks is of
relevance both to the astrologer and the analyst. This system, in
astrological terms, is represented by the linked horoscopes of the
entire family, and this includes parents, grandparents, great-
grandparents and on into that distant past which the East so
gracefully describes as 'the ancestors'. Although most family
therapists would probably not avail themselves of the insights
available from family horoscopes, that is no reason why astrology
should not avail itself of the insights of family therapy. Seen from
the perspective of depth psychology, the 'characteristics of the
system' which are so profoundly important in influencing the
individual both in behavioural and intrapsychic terms are not so
Fateand the Family
93
very different from the warring gods in the drama of Orestes. In
other words, these characteristics are not only the habit patterns of
communication and role-assignation established over time which
dictate whether mother is the one who always suffers or mediates
in arguments, or whether father is always the one-who acts out the
anger and violence, or 'whether son or daughter is asthmatic,
anorexic, obese or otherwise identifiable as 'the sick one'. The
characteristics of the system are ultimately the archetypes, the core
patterns or modes of perception and expression which can best be
portrayed through mythic image. They pass from one generation
to another in the same fashion as the curse of the House of Atreus. I
am not in a position to comment on whether there is a genetic
aspect to this psychic inheritance. Butif there were, we would still
have to deal with the inheritance.
One of the more striking features of the Orestes myth is the
constant and changeable interference offered by the gods. Apollo,
for example, takes now one side and now the other, ordering
Thyestes to raise up an avenger against Atreus, then commanding
Orestes to avenge his father - whose death would not have
occurred if the god had not demanded the grooming of Aegisthos
as a murderer in the first place. It is Apollo, too, who tells the
people of Mykenai to place a son of Pelops on their throne. This
constant interference on the part of the god implies a changing and
developing archetypal direction which isat work within the family
organism. In other words, there is a kind of intelligence at work
which, although at times it provokes crises and problems and the
suffering of individuals within the system, seems oriented
towards a goal of some kind, or a resolution. What is also striking is
that, each time this divine interference occurs, a great deal hinges
upon the manner in which the human protagonists of the drama
react to it. Family fate seems to be a product both of deeply
unconscious archetypal factors, and also individual consciousness
and responsibility. All the characters in the Orestes myth, save
Orestes himself, are quite ready to react spontaneously and vio-
lently and without reflection to the promptings of the gods. It is
only Orestes himself who truly embodies an inner conflict. Like
Orestes, sooner or later the 'identified patient' will present himself
for help with his difficulties, because at long last someone has the
potential consciousness to attempt to reconcile or bridge the
conflicting opposites within himself which are so often blamed on
other family members. These conflicting opposites, however, are
much older than the individual members of the family, and are
imaged in Greek myth as gods.
It is not difficult for the more rational mind to understand the
dynamics of the family in terms of behavioural patterns which
94
The Astrology of Fate
have become established over several generations and which can
be altered by the intervention of the family therapist. The father
whose secret love affair has remained an idyllic fantasy of lost
happiness may confer upon his daughter the name of the lost
lover, thereby placing upon her shoulders the responsibility of
being daughter-lover and soul to him and supplying the emotional
fulfilment that his own marriage lacks. The mother who has
suffered rejection or abandonment by her husband may transfer
her rage to the son whose very maleness is an affront to her pain,
raising him up to be her devoted servant-lover as recompense and
turning him against his own sex in retaliation. These kinds of
patterns are to be met with in most methods of psychotherapy, and
the analyst encounters with regularity the mysterious tacit passing
on of unlived and unconscious complexes from parent to child.
As Frances Wickes puts it,
We recognise the physical and economic dependence of the
child upon the father and mother. We do not attach sufficient
importance to the psychic bond which in early childhood often
amounts to a condition of identity of the unconscious of the
child with the unconscious of the parent. Through this identifi-
cation the disturbing forces that lie below the level of conscious
adult life are intuited by the unconscious of the child and give
rise in their milder forms to vague fears, apprehensive fantasies,
and disturbing dreams. In the more tragic instances dissociation
from reality or antisocial acts result. 53
As long as we view family interactions as causal, there is nothing
strange or mystical about their importance. Even the above para-
graph, although concerned with the boundlessness of the uncon-
scious,
suggests a causal
relationship between
unresolved
parental conflicts and the child's disturbed behaviour. It is perhaps
more difficult to envisage the psychic substance of the family as
one substance out of which the lives of its individual members are
molded, to such an extent that particular planetary aspects repeat
among the charts of family members without any perceivable or
understandable causal basis. Families as much as individuals are
driven by mythic patterns. Inherited psychic substance isa curious
concept, because whether or not there is a genetic basis or parallel
to it, it is stated baldly by the aggregation of family horoscopes,
and its manifestations are so often couched in dreams and fanta-
sies rather than in physical characteristics or behavioural patterns.
It is only when these psychic undercurrents begin to build up
pressure for lack of integration in lifethat they seem to tum into the
compulsions which are so disturbing in individuals, and often
then there is no immediately recognisable connection with family
Fate and the Family
95
matters. If the archetypal images are representations of instincts
experienced through the psyche, then the archetypal patterns
which are at work within families are representations of the very
blood and bones of the family, the psychic parallel to biological
heredity. The moment we consider these patterns in such a light,
then we are once again within the realm of Moira, the spinner of
the tissues of the body . Our families are our fate because we are
made of the substance of those families, and our heredity -
physical and psychic - is given at birth.
Frances Wickes places the most profound importance upon the
unity of the unconscious of mother and child. Only through slow,
gradual struggle does the individual ego of the child emerge - a
weak, fragile, unprotected thing that can all too easily be battered
and scarred by the unexpressed conflicts and frustrated energies
alive within the psyche of the parent. The sins of father and mother
are in truth visited upon the children, not through overt action, but
through what has never emerged from primordial darkness. This
is the child's Moira, his allotment. The unconscious conflicts that
have remained unresolved corne home to roost in the child, in the
form of psychic inheritance. In later life, that secret bond between
the unconscious of the child now grown to adulthood and the
unconscious inheritance of the parents remains as potent as ever .
It may be that astrology has a good deal to offer the analyst in terms
of the selective receptivity that different children have towards
these parental packages, through the connections between the
horoscopes. We shall see more of this shortly. But it is the experi-
ence of many psychotherapists, including myself, that work on
these family issues affects, in a strange and inexplicable way, the
other members of the family. It is as though the real unity of the
family psyche is revealed by one individual taking on the responsi-
bility of working with the family complexes. The unity of sub-
stance in the family does not die with the physical death of the
parents either, for they are not only actual people but images
within the psyche of the child. 'The ancestors' thus remain a living
inheritance, just as the genetic inheritance remains alive within the
body and continues to be passed on to future generations.
There is a rather problematic issue around this 'inheritance' of
psychic factors, however, and it comprises an apparent pair of
opposites. I am not sure just how opposite these opposites really
are, but they pose a problem not only from the point of view of the
'management' of psychotherapeutic work, but also from a philo-
sophical point of view - or, in other words, from the point of view
of fate. If painful or life-distorting experiences are 'caused' by the
parent - whether by overt behaviour or, as Wickes suggests, by
unconscious conflicts which find their way into the child via
%
The Astrology of Fate
unconscious identification with the parent - then the most enor-
mous responsibility lies upon the shoulders of any individual who
would bring a child into the world. It is doubtful that many of us
would have children if we realised the full impact of this responsi-
bility. Nor are we really dealing here with 'what has been written',
because presumably there is always an option on the part of the
parent to seek greater insight into himself so that he does not
burden his offspring with his own unsolved dilemmas. Much of
the work of psychotherapy, when it is conducted in depth,
involves the separation of the individual from this unconscious
identification with the parent, which may have gone on for the
whole of a lifetime and is no less potent just because the child has
grown into adulthood and the parents are, apparently, left behind.
If the parent has not taken the opportunity to assume responsi-
bility for his conflicts, then the child become adult stillcan; through
a work of 'reconstruction' in the therapeutic situation, the individ-
ual's own identity can gradually emerge from beneath the blanket
of the parental world view. This is a fairly classical approach to the
matter, and would probably not offend the most pragmatic of
therapists. Jung sometimes places his major emphasis on this
'causal' approach, although he, like Wickes, is predominantly
concerned with the unconscious atmosphere rather than with
overt acts and words.
The child is so much a part of the psychic atmosphere of the
parents that secret and unsolved trouble between them can
influence the child's health profoundly. The 'participation mys-
tique', that is, the primitive unconscious identity of the child
with its parents, causes the child to feel the conflicts of the
parents, and to suffer from them as if they were its own troubles.
It is hardly ever the open conflict or the manifest difficulty that
has the poisonous effect; it is almost always a disharmony
repressed and neglected by the parents. The real first cause of
such a neurotic disturbance is, without exception, the uncon-
scious. It is the things vaguely felt by the child, the oppressive
atmosphere of apprehension and self-consciousness, that
slowly pervade the child's mind like a poisonous vapour and
destroy the security of the conscious adaptation.P'
There is, however, another way of viewing this family inher-
itance, and on the surface it is contradictory to the attitudes and
approaches of many psychotherapeutic schools. This is the insight
which astrology offers, and it may be put very simply: The figures
of the parents, the unsolved dilemmas and unconscious conflicts
they contain and pass on, and the intrinsic nature of the parental
marriage, are already present as images within the birth horoscope.
Fate and the Family
97
In other words, they are a priori, inherent from the beginning -
what has been written. Because of these innate predispositions to
experience the parents through the perspective of the individual's
own psyche, the 'inheritance' is no longer only causal. This is a
very disturbing thought to those who take comfort in blaming their
parents' neglect, oppression, rejection, possessiveness or other
failures for their own inability to cope with life. The horoscope tells
us, in other words, that what is in the parents is also in us. There
can be no doubt that the objective parent and the inner image
connect, and perhaps even collude. But it is the inner pattern
which we must now consider, and it is this pattern which, I feel,
constitutes family fate. There is no 'reason' why signs should
repeat through family charts, or single aspects such as moon-
Uranus or Mars-Saturn, or specific house placements such as
eighth house Saturns or third house moons. But they do, despite
the lack of causal basis. 'Something' arranges these things, and
contemplating it is an awesome experience.
If mother, for example is experienced as Saturn and is therefore
feltas a cold, repressive, over-conventional or criticalwoman, then
in a sense mother can never really be anything else no matter how
hard she works at the parent-child relationship. The rejection is as
much on the part of the child as it is on the part of the mother. For a
period of time at least, and this often means the first half oflife, that
is the child's subjective experience of mother. She may be no more
critical and cold than many another, 'better' mother, but she and
her child share the unfortunate fate of a relationship in which this
Saturnian factor is the dominant one that the child registers and
remembers. Frequently - so frequently that it is downright eerie-
the mother whose child sees her as Saturn will often be a Saturn-
ian, either through a predominance ofCapricorn in the horoscope,
or an angular Saturn, or a moon-Saturn or sun-Saturn conjunc-
tion. Thus it is a shared substance, just as it is a shared rejection. It
may even be said, and I am saying it from experience of many
examples, that the child's perception of the mother is coloured by
his own projection to such an extent that he can draw from her
those very qualities for which he blames her. Thus, the mother
with Capricorn rising, Venus in Piscesand sun in Cancer willonly
register as Saturn on her child, and will begin to behave as Saturn
despite herself. The child's own behaviour and feeling, conscious
or unconscious, can push the mother into the more critical side of
her own nature, so that for reasons which defy her understanding
and may lead to considerable guilt and pain on her part as well as
the child's, she keeps behaving in a negative manner towards him.
lung was also aware of this component of the family network,
complementary to the causal one:
98
The Astrology of Fate
All those influences which the literature describes as being
exerted on the children do not come from the mother herself,
but rather from the archetype projected upon her, which gives
her a mythological background and invests her with authority
and numinosity. The aetiological and traumatic effects pro-
duced by the mother must be divided into two groups: (1) those
corresponding to traits of character or attitudes actually present
in the mother, and (2) those referring to traits which the mother
only seems to possess, the reality being composed of more or
less fantastic (i.e. archetypal) projections on the part of the
child.55
It has long been my feeling that insight into the actual personality
chemistry between parent and child may be gained from examin-
ing the comparison of horoscopes - child and mother, child and
father, mother and father, and so on. Insight into the archetypal
image which the child projects upon the parent, and which also
forms a major part of his own psychic constitution, may be gained
from examining the sun and moon in the birth horoscope, as well
as the tenth and fourth houses and their cusps. As I have said,
these two things overlap, for the planetary significator in the
child's chart is all too often echoed in the chart of the parent. The
meridian of the birth chart is a representation of family fate, but it
does not really describe what one's parents did to one in child-
hood. Rather, it is a portrait of two inner parents, archetypal or
mythic in nature, which dominate the psyche of the child and
remain as representations of relationship between man and
woman throughout life. These are the inherited complexes, the
'ancestral sins'.
The actual parents usually bear more than a cursory relationship
to these figures, and their marriage usually contains as one of its
dominant themes the situation described in the child's horoscope.
But the parents also possess other attributes, some of which may
show everywhere except to the child. All that concerns the child is
what he perceives; and if he is not to fall victim to the family
pattern, then he must find a way to distinguish between the actual
parents and the mythic images through which he views them.
These mythic images are his fate, and he will be confronted with
the necessity of working with them in his own life. But he can find
a way to meet them with his own individual resources, rather than
falling under the 'doom' of the parental marriage. Thus he does not
sever connection with these images, but embraces them as figures
which must be creatively incorporated into his development. As
long as they remain 'parents' in a literal sense, however, then he is
at their mercy .
Fateand the Family
99
The ascendant-descendant axis may be seen as a representation
of individual destiny. But the meridian is altogether different. The
signs and planets and aspects which are found in the two parental
houses, the fourth and the tenth, are not objective portraits of the
parents. They are archetypal images, gods, or 'allotments', and it is
these gods which dictate the 'characteristics of the system' within
the family far more than the personality differences and affinities.
Ultimately I do not believe these 'allotments' to be negative,
although they certainly become so if the individual attempts to
dissociate himself from what they represent in the hope that he can
free himself from his family. These tenth and fourth house planets
cannot be escaped, any more than can the sun and moon. They are
truly fate - inherited images which must be lived. IfI were going to
fantasise a horoscope for Orestes, I would imagine him to have,
perhaps, Pluto at the midheaven in opposition to the sun at the Ie,
thus representing the battle between the matriarchal power of the
Erinyes and the solar power of Apollo. As it is not atypical of
sun-Pluto people to work out their conflicts through a breakdown
of some kind, great or small, this would not be an inappropriate
aspect for the Greek hero. He might also, perhaps, have Saturn
conjuncting the sun and involved with the opposition to Pluto,
since Apollo's dictum is a stern and unyielding law; and he would
probably have Libra on the ascendant, since it took him so long to
make up his mind which side of the fence he was on. But place-
ments like these do not indicate literally that a mythic devouring
mother has created havoc in a young man's life. Unfortunately, it is
not so simple. No mother is merely Pluto. Even Klytaemnestra,
who is mythic, has her story too, and in Aeschylos' tragedy she
may be seen with some sympathy, a victim of her husband's
brutality, infidelity and abandonment, grieving for the loss of a
daughter destroyed through his pride and stupidity. Nor is any
personal father purely sun-Saturn, radiant and wise and all-
knowing and the giver of law. These figures do not really speak of
the parents. Orestes experiences the gods through his parents.
Pluto and sun-Saturn here speak of the gods themselves; and they
are Orestes' fate.
I shall now make a leap from this rather bare introduction to the
story of the young woman whose chart follows. The issues of
family fate can best be illustrated by example.
This example is truly an 'identified patient', because she - I will
call her Renee R.- suffers from the condition which psychiatry calls
autism, the commonest form of 'childhood psychosis'. Renee is, of
course, no longer a child, as will be evident from the birth data
given; she is now an autistic adult, cared for in an institution. The
psychiatric diagnosis for autism is poor. There is no treatment, and
100
The Astrology of Fate
Me
A
IC
DIAGRAM 2. Birth horoscope of Renee R.
b. 24 July 1956
9.30 a.m.
London .
D
psychiatry considers that there is no evidence in favour of a
psychotherapeutic insight-directed approach. This diagnosis is
contradicted by the work of such analytical psychologists as
Michael Fordham, from whom we will hear more later. But it is the
accepted formula within the psychiatric establishment, which is
where most autistic children wind up. Although some improve-
ment in socialbehaviour is possible in later life, most adult autistics
remain severely handicapped in institutions or families, as is
Renee. The importance of environmental and emotional factors is
controversial in psychiatric studies. In other words, to put it
Fate andthe Family
101
baldly, so far as the medical establishment is concerned, autism isa
condition whose causes are obscure,
whose treatment is a
mystery, and whose prognosis is negative.
Following is a classification of the behavioural abnormalities of
autism.
(a)
Abnormalities oflanguage:abnormal response to sounds; very
poor comprehension of gesture and speech; no imaginative
play; poor or absent gesture; restricted social imitation;
abnormal speech.
(b)
Social abnormalities:aloof and indifferent to people; poor gaze
contact; no co-operative play (though may relish rough and
tumble); no persisting friendships, weak parental attach-
ments, no discrimination between people; indifference to
social conventions, insensitivity to others' feelings.
(c)
Rituals and routines: rigid play (lining up toys) or preoccu-
pation with sterile topics (bus routes, etc.); resistance to
change with 'preservation of sameness' of environment
(timetables, furniture placements, etc.); attachments to par-
ticular, often unusual objects or collections; tantrums when
frustrated by denial of above.
(d)
Additional abnormalities may be present: a lack of curiosity and
unresponsiveness to people in infancy (deafness is often
queried); unpredictable fears, screaming or laughter; abnor-
mal movements (finger stereotypes, spinning self or objects,
toe-walking, etc.); difficulties learning manipulative tasks
and orientations; hyperkinesis; self-destructive behaviour
and rocking; isolated skills (jigsaws, music, computation,
rote memory).56
This sparse clinical picture from a psychiatric textbook does not,
of course, convey the feeling of the strange, disturbing ritualistic
withdrawnness of the autistic child, who appears to exist in some
other dimension of time and space and frustrates, sometimes
violently, every effort to penetrate his inner fortress. But it does
provide us with a good idea of the spectrum of behavioural
peculiarities typical of autism. Some cases of autism are more
severe than others, and some can be linked with organic causes
such as brain damage. Renee, however, in so far as tests are in any
sense conclusive, does not appear to suffer from any organic
impairment. The roots of her autism are unknown. In childhood
she was frighteningly strong-willed, and would go without sleep
for long periods, standing rooted in a frozen posture for hours. Up
to the age of fifteen, she was subject to violent rages and screaming
fits. She would also subject her body to violence 'like someone pos-
102
TheAstrology of Fate
MC
IC
DIAGRAM 3. Birth horoscope of Mrs R. (Renee's mother)
b. 14 August 1925
5.00 a.m.
Antwerp
sessed'. She has never evidenced any capacity for normal speech,
but occasionally 'echoes' a word or two of something that has been
said - a typical autistic trait. Bythe time she was five years old she
had been institutionalised. As she grew into adulthood, the rages
and fits gradually subsided. Now she moves about in a zombie-like
fashion, sometimes refusing to eat or sleep, simply sitting and
doing nothing. It is difficult, when faced with a life of this kind, to
be specious in talking about 'potentials' unused because of any
conscious choice, or about freeing the 'spirit' from the 'lower
nature'. Nor is any discussion of 'bad karma' from some other
D
Fate and the Family
103
DIAGRAM 4. Birth horoscope of Mr R. (Renee's father)
b. 1 August 1912
No birth time given; planetary placements are for midnight GMT.
incarnation very edifying, save as a comfort to any among her
family who might believe in it.
I shall not pretend at any point in this discussion to have found
the 'cause' of Renee's autism. It remains as much a mystery to me
as it does to the psychiatrists who have examined her, or to the
bewildered members of her family. But if there is such a thing as
family fate, then perhaps some small insight might emerge from a
careful perusal of the family history and the family horoscopes,
which now follow. It will also be of some value to examine what
lung and Fordham have to say about autism, in contrast to the
disturbingly flat psychiatric portrait we have just seen.
Renee's mother, Mrs R., was married twice. Her first marriage
was short-lived; her volatile husband vanished shortly after the
birth of a daughter Rose. After obtaining a divorce on the grounds
104
The Astrologyof Fate
DIAGRAM 5. Birth horoscope of Grandmother R. (Renee's maternal grandmother)
b. 2 August 1898
No birth time given; planetary placements are for noon GMT.
of desertion, she then remarried, this time to a quiet, sweet-
tempered, unobtrusive man . Renee is the daughter of this second
marriage. 50 humiliated and wounded was Mrs R.by the desertion
of her first husband that she never told Rose of her real father, but
led the child to believe that the second husband, Mr R., had
fathered both girls. Rose only discovered the true facts by accident
when she was in her teens. Family secrets of this kind have a way
of pervading the psychic atmosphere of the home in ways which
are difficult to foresee .
Unable to face the implications of such an obviously disturbed
child as Renee, Mrs R.insisted that there must be some birth defect
responsible, and until Renee was institutionalised at the age of five
simply could not cope with the task of looking after her. The
Fate and the Family
105
-a+---t--. D
DIAGRAM 6. Birth horoscope of Grandfather R. (Renee's maternal grandfather)
b. 26 December 1898
8.00 a.m .
Amsterdam
responsibility ofcaring for the difficultand sometimes violent child
thus fell to Rose, who was then around eleven years old. Mrs R. to
this day still stubbornly refuses to consider that there might be
emotional factors involved in Renee's autism, and remains con-
vinced of the idea of a birth defect despite any number of medical
tests to the contrary.
Mrs R. was herself an unwanted child, the result ofan accidental
pregnancy. She has had a long history of depression and physical
disability, including various disturbances of the reproductive
organs. She conceived her two children with great difficulty, and
was frequently ill during her pregnancies. She was a 'good' child,
perhaps compensating for the feeling of being unwanted, and
developed into a passive, self-effacing adult. Her manner has
106
TheAstrology of Fate
Me
A
Ie
DIAGRAM 7. Birth horoscope of Aunt R. (Renee's mother's sister)
b. 27 September 1920
1.30 a.m .
Antwerp
o
always been apologetic and full ofself-blame, and this persona was
in evidence long before Renee was born; the difficulties of raising
an autistic child have only increasd the sense of martyrdom to a
bad fate. She suffers from migraine and from stomach ulcers, both
of which conditions, alongside the chronic depressions, were her
excuse for not taking responsibility of the care of Renee when she
was small. Mrs R. has a younger sister, whose horoscope is
included under the name I Aunt R.', since she is Renee's aunt. This
younger sister seems to have acted out much more of the
aggression and anger of the family, pursuing a dramatic sequence
of broken Jove affairs and abortions. There is immense jealousy
Fate and the Family
MC
107
A
IC
DIAGRAM 8. Birth horoscope of Rose R. (Renee's sister)
b. 28 August 1949
1.30 a.m ,
London
o
between the two sisters. Aunt R. has always believed that her
sister was the favoured child (despite Mrs R.'s belief that she was
unwanted). Both vied for the love and attention of their father,
who seems to have shown some sterling qualities, being a man of
dignity and integrity. Their mother (whose horoscope is included
under the name 'Grandmother R.') seems herself to have been a
martyred type, begrudging the needs and demands of her two
daughters, and offering a generally pathetic image to the world .
She too suffered from numerous physical complaints.
This very brief description of a troubled family conveys one
point very strongly: the women in the family, in particular Mrs R.,
108
TheAstrology of Fate
have not in any sense dealt with their difficulties in an honest way,
but have instead become victims of life. Mrs R.'s passive, self-
effacing personality, which is characteristic of the sufferer of
migraine and ulcers, is almost a carbon copy of her own mother's,
and Aunt R., although apparently more active, is equally a sad
victim of unfortunate affairs of the heart and is ultimately no less
passive in attempting to deal constructively with her problems.
The only family member who appears to have deviated from this
pattern of martyrdom is Rose, who, perhaps in part because she
was forced to face the dilemma of Renee so early, opted to take
responsibility for her own life. She is the only one who is settled in
a reasonably happy and stable marriage with loved children of her
own. She is also the only one who has chosen to look at the
problems of her family psychologically, for she has herself become
a psychotherapist. These two sisters, Rose and Renee, have in very
different fashions been burdened with a family fate. One has
manifested this fate as autism, while the other has attempted to
deal with her wound in a creative way.
We can now begin to examine the horoscopes of the family, first
from the point of view of overall recurrent patterns or themes - the
family 'myths' or 'characteristics of the system' - and second from
the point of view of the individual horoscopes, in particular
Renee's. What is immediately apparent and rather startling is the
preponderance of the signs Leo and Virgo in the network of family
charts. The repetition of these two signs is so frequent as to be
almost absurd. Renee, Mrs R., Mr R. and Grandmother R. all have
the sun in Leo. Aunt R. has Leoon the ascendant. Renee has Virgo
on the ascendant, while Mrs R. has a satellitium in Virgo. Mr R. has
Mars and Mercury placed there, while Grandmother R. has Venus
and Mercury. Rose has the sun, Mercury and Saturn all in Virgo.
This combination of Leo and Virgo extends into the horoscopes of
Rose's children, for her young daughter has the sun, ascendant,
Mercury and Saturn in Virgo, and the moon in Leo. Only Grand-
father R. lacks planetary placements in these two signs .
Whatever else this predominance of Leo and Virgo might mean,
Iam struck by the juxtaposition ofa fiery, energetic, self-willed and
self-expressive sign with a collection of such passive, depressed
and timid personalities. This factalone is enough to set offwarning
bells in the objective observer. What has happened to all that fire?
One might envision a family of talented, creative people such as
the Redgraves; or a rowdy, competitive dynasty such as one finds
in American soap operas like Dallas. Of all the signs, Leo is the one
most concerned with individuality and the right to be oneself. This
is, in a sense, a family daimon, a tremendously potent creative drive
which, evidently, was simply choked to death. It is my feeling that
Fate andtheFamily
109
this problem of the vanishing Leois a very relevant point when we
come to look at the possible background to Renee's autism.
At first glance, it might seem that Virgo is more obvious in the
visible characteristics of the family portrait, at least in its less
attractive manifestations: the preponderance of psychosomatic
ailments which seems to burden the family members. But Virgo
too is not really being expressed in any true sense, for this earthy
sign is a doer and a builder. Only Rose, with the sun conjunct
Saturn in Virgo, has manifested the ambition and conscientious-
ness to achieve anything in a worldly sense, academically and
professionally. The intellectual liveliness of Virgo, like the self-
expressiveness of Leo, seems to have been quite stifled in this
family. At best, the Leo-Virgo blend produces the creative artist or
craftsman, or the worldly entrepreneur, who combines breadth of
vision with a meticulous attention to the details of earthly life. At
worst, it is a frustrated, fretting hypochondriac, eternally worried
about what others think and whether everything is in the safe
place where it was last left: the negative side of Virgo over-
whelming the bright fire of Leo. What remains, with such a
souring of the dough, is, to put it very simply, suppressed rage.
The fiery daimon stifled and dampened and inverted so that each
little illness is a further means of attention-getting and covert
control, turns poisonous. Although it is purely intuitive specu-
lation on my part, I feel we do not have to look far to surmise who
has been the recipient of all that poison.
Now, such a gross generalisation is my own astrological imagi-
nation playing about with a problem which most psychiatrists
would deal with far more cautiously. But it is worth perusing, at
this point, some of the less orthodox views on autism offered by
people other than those entrenched in the psychiatric estab-
lishment. Frances Wickes offers the following remarks on autism:
A child who has normally passed beyond auto-erotic acts may
be thrown back into them by an abnormal urge to retreat. It may
take any of the forms belonging to that earlier stage of develop-
ment ... Regressive tendencies resulting from failure to adapt
often seek compensation in power. Or it may result in a
withdrawal of forces. Ordinarily (as I understand it) this
regressive behaviour can beworked with analytically if the task
or situation to which the child cannot adapt can be discovered .
In autism evidentially the task or situation is life itself, and the child
simply refu~s todevelop anego atall. 57
So, in Wickes' view, a child such as Renee takes a kind ofquick look
out (or something which is pre-ego but nevertheless sentient takes
that look), and says to itself, No, thank you. Whatever is out there
110
The Astrology of Fate
is evidently too terrifying, too monstrous, too threatening, too
life-destroying to merit the effort. The body continues to develop,
and the child lives within the penumbra of the unconscious Self.
Its rituals are reminiscent of those of an animal, such as a dog
circling round and round before settling itself in its basket. The
ego, the complex of conscious adaptation to the environment,
never separates out from the Self, although the nascent persona-
lity traits which are reflected by the birth horoscope may be
glimpsed in crude and primitive form. One may well ask why
Renee would have found life an impossible task. Perhaps this is
related to all that furiously suppressed life in a family of Leos who
cannot live. One wonders what kind of psychic charge accumu-
lates within the collective fabric of such a repressed group of
people. Perhaps if such things can be perceived by the psyche of a
newborn child, then it is a sufficient reason to deny psychological
birth.
lung implies that a complex is at the core of autistic withdrawal.
Although we shall have more to say about complexes and fate later
on, this might mean, put very simplistically, that there is a
complex of associations, images and responses which acts like a
magnet in the unconscious and draws the libido, the life-energy,
away from the external world and in and down to itself.
Autistic withdrawal into one's fantasies is the same as what I
have described elsewhere as the marked proliferation of fanta-
sies related to the complex. Reinforcement of the complex is
identical with increase of resistance . . . The 'life-wound' is the
complex, which is naturally present in every case of schizo-
phrenia and of necessity always entails the phenomenon of
autism or autoeroticism, since complexes and involuntary ego-
centricity are inseparable and reciprocal .. . For some time I
have employed the concept of introversion for this condition.P"
Seen in this perspective, autism is extreme introversion, extreme
withdrawal of life-energy into the unconscious towards the
complex . But what, in the case of Renee, is the complex, the
'life-wound' as lung puts it? Perhaps I can be forgiven for waxing
mythical, but I would suggest that the complex has something to
do with the raging lion, the angry deity who, denied outer expres-
sion for several generations, now inhabits the underworld and
devours from within. I am reminded most strongly of that Greek
image of the family curse, embodied in an angry power which in
some mysterious fashion works from within the family and pro-
vokes actions which in turn promulgate catastrophe. If I view it in
this way, Renee's autism is not the 'fault' of Mrs R. Rather, the
entire family, Mrs R. included, is at the mercy of something which
Fate and the Family
III
destroys from within because no single family member- save Rose
- is sufficiently conscious to give it expression in outer life.
Michael Fordham, in his book, The Self and Autism, offers an
exhaustive and illuminating study of the subject. He begins his
discussion of autism by quoting Winicott and Bettelheim, two
analysts who are convinced that the environment and in particular
the mother are decisive in cases of secondary (non-organic)
autism. Winicott considers that there has been an environmental
defect, while Bettelheim goes so far as to contend that autistic
children are autistic because they came into the world and were
confronted with mothers who wished for their death. This is,
needless to say, an extreme viewpoint, and it does not accord with
Fordham's
findings;
nor
does
it
accord
with
astrology's
findings, although Fordham would probably not be pleased to
find that the horoscope affirms his viewpoint.
If autistic children live in an 'inner' world it is not by any means
felt so to be - rather they live with a world of objects (and this
includes parts of their own bodies) whose arrangement is often
very precise and organised, though not distributed in terms of
what is inner and outer. On the basis of observations such as
these it seems probable that the hypothesis of a barrier protect-
ing an inner world is simply an assumption made by adults to
explain the child's inaccessibility; this is often felt by the parent
as a barrier when, in terms of the child's experience, no such
feeling is established because the barrier is set up not against
them but against not-self-objects. He may know and feel a
barrier but it is not a defence to protect an internal object.59
He then goes on to say:
It is assumed that the essential core of autism represents in
distorted form the primary integrate of infancy, and that idio-
pathic autism is a disordered state of integration, owing its per-
sistence to failure of the self to deintegrate.r?
As I understand this statement of Fordham's, he is not very far
away from Wickes: the Self must deintegrate for the ego to form,
and it does not do so, thereby preserving the original 'wholeness'
of the newborn infant before relationship with the external object
(mother, mother's breast) begins. The rage and anger of the
autistic child is therefore directed at any outer object which does
not comply with the inner self-object requirements, or, in other
words, anything which is sensed as 'not me'.
As I am not experienced in the field of therapy with autistic
children, I am not in a position to agree with or contradict these
authors except in a theoretical way. I have quoted this material to
112
The Astrology of Fate
help give a picture of the condition and its perplexities, and the
findings of those who work within the field. But for the astrologer,
the primary question is - or perhaps ought to be - whether such a
condition as autism can be seen in any form, nascent or actual, in
the birth horoscope. If not, then one is irresistibly led to the
mother, and to the relation between mother and child. I do not
know whether Mrs R. harboured secret unconscious wishes to
destroy her child. It is certainly possible, considering her life
history. She certainly seems to be damned by circumstantial
evidence. But Renee herself is an equally important partner in this
dialogue, so we must now tum to her birth horoscope.
At first glance, this does not seem to be a particularly 'unfortu-
nate' horoscope. At least, it is not unfortunate in terms of the
traditional nasties such as overemphasised and afflicted sixth and
twelfth houses, dreadful Saturn aspects, and other astrological
terrors from medieval horoscopic literature. The sun is in dignity in
its own sign of Leo, and there is a grand trine, albeit out-of-sign, in
the airy houses. This ought, in ordinary terms, to suggest some
kind of mental facility since these are the three houses concerned
with communication and exchange between people. I am only too
aware of the problems of hindsight in chart interpretation. We
shall all no doubt be trotting out the charts of Hitler and Oscar
Wilde unto eternity to see whether one can spot a homosexual or a
world dictator. I shall never be convinced that Renee's chart
'shows' autism, any more than Wilde's 'shows' homosexuality or
Hitler's 'shows' mastery over most of Europe. Butas autism issuch
a mystery even within the therapeutic field, I can perhaps be
excused for piecing together a scenario which might tell a story.
This I have already begun to do in considering the omnipresence of
Leo in the family horoscopes and suggesting the idea of a family
myth or daimon of self-expression and individuality which has
been inverted and turned destructive.
A closer inspection of Renee's grand trine reveals a powerful,
perhaps even a ruthless will. That is not, ofcourse, in contradiction
either of the typical autistic personality or of Renee herself, who
stands for hours refusing food and sleep and fallsinto violent rages
if intruded upon. The will is certainly there, but it is used for some-
thing other than extroverted activity. The frightening outbursts
of temper and the attacks on those who disturb the intactness of
the fantasy world are accomplished with tremendous rigidity and
determination. The ego has perhaps never been born, but in its
nascent state it would seem still to be a Leo, an anti-consciousness
that clings to the uroboric embrace with all the tenacity of any Leo,
at one with the unconscious Self and violently resistant to outer
intrusion or invasion of any kind. For reasons best known to
Fate and the Family
113
herself - or to her Self - Renee has elected to turn the fixity and
determination of the sun in trine to Saturn in trine to Mars against,
rather than into, the world. Thus she herself becomes omnipotent,
all-powerful, and anything which threatens this experience must
be negated or destroyed.
Saturn in the third house in Scorpio also tells a tale. At best, this
placement is not communicative. At worst, it is virtually inarticu-
late . Whatever 'normal' might mean, Saturn found in the third
house is not one of your party chatterboxes. It can display great
suspicion of the environment, and evidences Scorpio's habitual
nose for the shadow. If there is an angry daimon around, or, as
Bettelheim suggests, an unconsciously murderous mother, then
Saturn in Scorpio will find it, even where no one else will. Even
moderately murderous mothers - those in whom some basic
ambivalence is to be found towards the child, a common and
probably 'normal' situation - become Terrible Mothers for Scorpio.
The third house is also traditionally the house of siblings, and
carries the suggestion here of dependency upon and hostility
towards Rose, who was eleven when Renee was born and was
coerced into taking care of her. Saturn is in square to Mercury,
another contact which is suggestive of a withdrawn,
non-
communicative nature. These qualities are comfortable and may
even be attractive in someone in whom the ego is strong enough to
express them in a related way. An ordinary interpretation of this
third-house-Mercury-Saturn link-up might touch on hesitancy in
expression, and a certain self-doubt in terms of intellectual confi-
dence.
But one might also
point out the tact,
depth and
thoroughness inherent in the aspect. But in Renee's case, what we
have is virtually a caricature of the individual who cannot speak,
cannot learn, and cannot permit any infringement of the environ-
ment into her private world.
We are, so far, no closer to discerning autism in Renee's chart,
although certain configurations such as the Saturn-Mercury
aspect 'fit' in an exaggerated way the condition of this unfortunate
woman. Perhaps even more important than the Saturn-Mercury
square is the square of Saturn to Pluto in the twelfth house. This
square is a very close one, and in light of all we have seen Pluto
in the preceding chapters, it ought to suggest something 'fated' at
work in Renee. I have mentioned that the twelfth house concerns
the collective psyche of the family, with its past 'sins' and unlived
complexes. Pluto placed in the twelfth supports my feeling that
tremendous violent anger lurks in the atmosphere within this
family . It is a kind of 'pick-up' of the collective shadow, a peculiar
sensitivity to the dark destructiveness which lies below the thresh-
old of conscious individual expression and which has been carried
114
The Astrology of Fate
forward into the present from the ancestral past. Renee's third
house Saturn in Scorpio suggests a sensitivity to the immediate
environment, but Pluto in the twelfth squaring this Saturn sug-
gests a deeper sensitivity, and one which even in a 'normal' child
might suggest night terrors and great fear of the unseen destruc-
tiveness which the parental psyches carry. Although this aspect
does not declare 'autism' any more than any other horoscope
placement does, it certainly emphasises what might be the 'impos-
sible task' with which Renee was confronted.
Another configuration of undoubted importance is the T-cross
between the sun, moon, Uranus, Mercury and Neptune. With this
very tense grouping we may glimpse some of the qualities which
express themselves through Renee as violence and destruc-
tiveness. This is also no doubt part of the 'life task' which Renee
cannot or 'will not' take on, for accommodating such diverse and
powerful feelings as those reflected by two outer planets colliding
with sun and moon is a problem which even in a strong ego would
very likelygive rise to intolerance of restriction or opposition ofany
kind. Given this predisposition in Renee, nascent from the begin-
ning, one can only speculate on the response if someone of her
strong-willed and explosive nature encounters something equally
strong-willed and explosive in the environment. Although the
family as we have seen itevidences some pretty pathetic, repressed
personalities, somewhere in the psychic atmosphere all that buried
Leo lurks. It is both within Renee and outside her. Even if we con-
sider Bettelheim's more extreme view that the autistic child refuses
development because of the intuited murderous feelings of the
mother, what if both mother and child possess a murderous rage?
The full moon in Renee's chart echoes the chart of Grandmother
R., who was born under the same Leo-Aquarius full moon. MrR.
has the sun in Leo in opposition to Uranus in Aquarius, although
he does not seem to have expressed it. Mrs R. has the moon in
square to Uranus. These parental contacts of sun and moon to
Uranus are both reflected in Renee's chart. So there is not only Leo,
but Uranus tocontend with as well. Beneath the exterior this family
psyche is likea mine-field. Sun and moon aspecting Uranus are not
placements which are overly conducive to co-operative inter-
change and adjustment to others. If the individual with such
aspects is a more socialor gregariously inclined type, then the more
abrupt and iconoclastic Uranian qualities are often repressed, and
are lived out through a partner or friends who are 'peculiar'.
Renee's moon-Uranus opposition is particularly relevant,
because the moon has a special bearing on the image and experi-
ence of the mother in the individual's horoscope. The moon repre-
sents our roots; it is a symbol of that aspect of the pyche which
Fate and the Family
115
contains and supports life. In this sense it is also an image of the
physical body, the container of the psyche, and also of the mother,
who is our physical container during pregnancy and our psychic
container during childhood. The moon tells a story about the
individual's feeling of safety in life, both from the point of view of
how he experiences his childhood and how he experiences his own
physical self as a safe place in which to live. It will be immediately
apparent that Uranus is anything but a safe container. The experi-
ence of the mother is not nurturing or supportive. It is felt as
unpredictable, unreliable, sometimes kind and comforting but
suddenly and without reason hostile or perverse. The difficult
aspects of Uranus and the moon pose a great dilemma for a
woman, because the maternal moon and its instinctual world
become disturbed and threatened by the compulsion to break free.
The woman with moon-Uranus may experience a lack of safety
through her own mother; and her mothering, in turn, may be
fraught with ambivalent feelings. It is as though she is not quite
comfortable about being a woman at all, because Uranus fights
violently against the biologicalbondage of the moon. Ambivalence
and even rage toward the ordinary functions of the female body
are often the by-product ofan unresolved moon-Uranus dilemma .
In some people I have seen the great tension and fear of disruption
expressed in symbolic ways such as fear of flying in aeroplanes, or
a fear of electricity, or a fear of fire. The body anticipates sudden
death or harm, which is the moon's reaction to the intrusion of
Uranus, just as Uranus feels the moon to be a trap and a tomb. It is
therefore not surprising that Mrs R. experienced such difficulty in
conceiving her children, and suffered from recurrent ailments
during her pregnancies. It is as though she consciously wanted a
child but unconsciously rejected it, and the conflict was suffered in
the body rather than in consciousness. I have often seen this with
moon-Uranus women: Rather than endure the conflict and make
the necessary steps to give both sides of it value in life, they often
identify with the 'good mother' role, thus harbouring immense
unconscious anger towards the child who has bound them to their
female bodies. This, perhaps, is what Bettelheim means by the
mother who secretly wishes to destroy her child. Tom between
being a woman and being the asexual spiritual being symbolised
by Uranus, this aspect is a frequent contact in the charts of those
who suffer sexual disfunctions, gynaecological problems and diffi-
culties or delays in childbearing.
The moon-Uranus opposition in Renee's chart could be taken as
an indicator of her basic experience of her mother. In turn Mrs R.
also has the aspect, in the form of a square. So she too experienced
instability in the relationship with her own mother, Grandmother
116
The Astrology of Fate
R. This interpretation is confirmed by the fact that Grandmother R.
conceived by accident and did not want her child . We are here
confronting a family inheritance which has worked its way down
from grandmother to mother to daughter, and has probably even
earlier roots. It is like a Greek family curse, which if it remains
unconscious simply leads to the next generation suffering from the
same problem. How much the accumulated psychic stuffof several
generations of angry women is connected with Renee's inability to
develop a functioning ego is an open question. But the problems of
this aspect are certainly suggestive of great insecurity and a feeling
of being 'uncontained' in life. One of the more interesting facets of
the moon-Uranus contact is that the 'container' is not only the
mother; it is the individual himself or herself, the body containing
the conflict of feelings, the personality containing its unruly
elements. Moon-Uranus is not only a portrait of a person who has
difficulty in feeling 'safe'. It also pictures a person who fears that he
cannot himself contain his own explosiveness. The aspect has
always had a reputation for 'bad-temper', but this is something
more than ordinary irritability. The fear of explosions, fire, sudden
accidents, aeroplane crashes and other 'phobic' manifestations is
really a projection upon outer objects of the disruptive tendencies
within the individual himself. The container which is faulty is not
only the mother; being unmothered, it is the individual who often
has a low tolerance for anxiety and cannot stand ambivalent
emotions. It is perhaps relevant here to remember Renee's sudden
rages, erupting out of nowhere, exhausting themselves and then
vanishing, as well as the obsessive ritualising ofobjects and actions
which are so eerily like the primitive rituals that keep the dark
forces of the inimical gods at bay.
We may now examine another 'inherited' contact in Renee's
chart, the square between the sun and Neptune. In Mrs R.'s chart,
the sun is conjunct Neptune in the first house. Grandmother R.
has the two planets in semisquare. This is another configuration
which appears to follow the maternal line. Mr R. has neither sun
nor moon aspecting Neptune. Aunt R. has the moon in Pisces,
which is (if the pun may be excused) a watered-down version of
moon-Neptune, which does appear in Grandfather R.'s chart as
well. Neptune is a planet which is antithetical in meaning to
Uranus, because it is connected with the realm of feeling rather
than thought, and embodies the archetypal image of the victim
and the issue of redemption through suffering. In terms of Mrs R.'s
chart, the sun-Neptune expresses much of her overt behaviour in
life, and appears to have virtually dominated her. What is visible is
not the dynamic Leo, nor the turbulent moon-Uranus, but the
self-effacing and sacrificial stance of Neptune, to whom love and
Fate and the Family
117
suffering are inseparable and for whom life is barren if there is no
one to offer up one's soul to. This tendency to give up one's own
identity and live through sacrifice to others is perhaps one of the
reasons why someone as strong as Mrs R. elected to live the lifeshe
did . Any hurt - such as the abandonment by her first husband - is
seen not as a source of anger or of self-examination, but an
affirmation that lifeis a place of suffering and sacrifice. Renee also
has this dilemma in her horoscope. The unresolved conflict
between the self-will of Uranus and the self-sacrifice of Neptune
has landed firmly upon her, and once again it is tempting to
surmise that perhaps this is one of the insurmountable life-tasks
from which she has, on some profound level, elected to withdraw.
Like Apollo and the Erinyes in the myth of Orestes, two power-
ful deities here demand satisfaction. Both are represented by outer
planets, which to me suggests that neither is prone to being wholly
integrated into individual consciousness. Both have the autonomy
and force of a god, for they are embodiments of great collective
drives and myths. Neptune is essentially a feminine planet, and is
connected with the archetypal image of the suffering woman. This
is the 'mediatrix' such as is portrayed by the figure of the Virgin
Mary. The sentiments of Neptune are nicely expressed in Bach's St
Matthew Passion:
'Tis I whose sin nowbinds Thee!
With anguish deep surrounds Thee
And nails Thee to the tree.
Thetorture Thou artfeeling,
Thy patient love revealing,
'Tis I should bear it, I alone.
Neptune opens the floodgates to the experience of the suffering
of the world and the agony of the spirit incarnated in flesh. The
longing is for release from the body's prison and union with the
divine source, whether this is taken in a spiritual sense as God or in
a reductive sense as the original unity of mother's womb. There-
fore the Neptunian person is inclined to experience the mortal
passions as full of sin and grief, himself as guilty, and his expiation
as the only possible means of cleansing and atonement. Renee's
mother perhaps 'needed' a disturbed child, for her meaning in life
is inextricably bound up with suffering. 50, too, would Renee's
have been, although the strongly Leonine and Uranian influences
in the horoscope would have fought this necessity of suffering.
This alone might provide reason enough not to bother. Uranus is a
male planet, and carries the inspiration and detached breadth of
vision of the heaven-gods of myth. Renee, like Orestes, has within
her horoscope an apparently irreconcilable conflict. lung felt that
118
The Astrology of Fate
such conflicts, although they tend to generate suffering, are
immensely creative and conducive to the development of a true
individuality. But Renee was not in a position to benefit from
lung's wisdom. It is as though, sensing the turbulence and diffi-
culty of the life mapped out for her, she decided, if I phrase it in
more esoteric language, not to incarnate at all.
I am certainly inclined to speculate quite deeply upon the
connection of Mrs R.'s suffering and internal conflict with Renee's
autism. It is as though Orestes, confronted by the angry and
demanding deities who dog his family, decided not to return to
Argos to fulfil Apollo's command, but simply curled up in a bail in
Phokis, the place of his exile, and never spoke again. But why does
Renee lack the strength of Orestes? This question is a reasonable
one to ask of the horoscope, because if the horoscope indicates
basic propensities of character, then surely the capacity to cope
with conflict ought to be indicated in the chart. Strength of will, as
we have seen, is certainly evident. Butcontainment is not. Perhaps
Renee's inability to struggle with the battleground into which she
was born is connected in part with her Virgo ascendant, not the
bravest or toughest-skinned of signs. I have found over and over
again that Virgo, like its opposite sign Pisces, can be extremely
mediumistic and sensitive to the atmosphere of the environment.
The difference is that environmental undercurrents register
emotionally in Pisces, whereas in Virgo they tend to register in the
form of physical symptoms. Virgo has few defences against the
invader, save that of the habits and rituals so beloved by the sign
and the incisive intellect which, once development has begun,
serves as a bastion against chaos. Autism, in a horrible sort of way,
is a caricature of this ritualism with its rigid repetitive actions and
compulsive ceremonies. Obsessive ritual is a fascinating expres-
sion of the ancient primitive tendency to perform magical actions
to protect oneself - or the community - against the invasion of the
chaos of the archetypal world. The overpowering unconscious
force of so much familial Leo would be enough to drive even a
'normal' Virgo into frenzied rituals, and probably into eczema,
asthma, and stomach troubles as well. Mrs R.'s first house is a
frightening barrage of unlived vital life, dominated by the pathos
of a negative Neptune. In trying to imagine this formidable woman
playing such a passive and acquiescent role, I am disturbed by the
potential of violence that must lie beneath the surface and which
permeated the psychic environment of the baby Renee, with her
thin-skinned Virgo ascendant. Perhaps the autistic child makes a
kind of statement: 'I am very sorry, but I am not coming out. The
world is far too terrifying and destructive, I myself am far too
terrifying and full of destructiveness, and my defences are too
Fate and the Family
119
weak, so thank you very much but no thanks; I shall remain
unborn.'
Rose, Renee's half-sister, has somehow managed to escape the
nightmare which Renee herselfapparently perceived too early and
too well. There may be many reasons for this. Seen psychologi-
cally, when Rose was born, Mrs R. had not yet suffered the
disillusionment of the lost husband, and had not yet fully crystall-
ised in her martyr's stance. Seen astrologically, Rose's chart does
not evidence the same turbulent conflicts as Renee's. Here the
moon is in trine to Uranus, which suggests that in Rose the conflict
between motherhood and freedom is an issue which, although
difficult, stands a far better chance of reconciliation. Trines imply a
greater possibility of integration of two warring psychic drives.
Here also the sun is in sextile to Uranus, a softer aspect than the
conjunction which appears in Renee's chart. This makes the
wilfulness of Uranus more manageable and more able to be
integrated and expressed as an independent spirit still able to live
within existing social boundaries. Most important, perhaps, is the
absence of Leo in Rose's horoscope. Only Pluto is placed in the
sign, and Pluto does not figure strongly either in its house place-
ment or in its aspects to other planets. Neptune too is relatively
quiet, only conjuncting Venus; so whatever sacrificial tendency is
implied, it is more likely to surface as romantic idealism and the
sacrifice of wildly idealistic love-fantasies, rather than as a sacrifice
of the identity itself as is so often the case with the sun. The T-cross
involving the moon, Jupiter and Mars is certainly difficult, and
does not possess the best of tempers. But these are inner planets,
and are a good deal more readily digested. Uranus and Neptune
threatening the sun and moon from opposite sides are a far more
formidable combination in Renee's chart than Mars and Jupiter
colliding with the moon in Rose's . There is a similarity, for the
problem of sacrifice versus self-assertion is suggested by both. But
Rose's T-cross is child's play compared with the terrible collision of
the other planets in Renee's chart. Finally, the conjunction of the
sun and Saturn in Virgo is also an important indicator of a kinder
fate. Although it seems to reflect the loss of the father - which,
consciously, Rose did not know about, but which is stated baldly
here in the birth horoscope - it offers in compensation a toughness
and capacity for survival ana containment which none of the other
women in this family seems to possess. Rose has the gift of
self-preservation, and this is perhaps partly why she alone has
managed to build a life for herself rather than becoming a football
tossed blindly between archetypal powers.
Obviously there are many more connections among these family
horoscopes which might be mentioned. They are a striking
120
TheAstrologyof Fate
example of the repetition of patterns within families which I have
seen so many times in my experience of working as an astrologer.
Family fate does indeed seem to be portrayed, in part as a synchro-
nicity of repeated signs and aspects which form a kind of statement
of psychological heredity. Whether one wishes to take a causal or
an acausal approach to the problem of the 'family scapegoat' or
'identified patient', it is apparent in the study of interlocked family
charts that the individual is not so separate as he might think. For
this reason Orestes stands as the great mythic symbol of family
fate. At the core of his dilemma is ambivalence, a collision of
opposites portrayed in the drama as the deadly battle between
matriarchy and patriarchy, between body and spirit, between
mother and father. This conflict drives Orestes mad. He is caught
between two archetypal dominants, the solar god Apollo who
rules the realm of light and consciousness, and the chthonic
Erinyes who serve the underworld powers and the realm of
instinct. When conflicts within a family proliferate without resolu-
tion for generation after generation, then the individual may find
himself in Orestes' shoes: heads, they win; tails, you lose. There is
no recourse but the path of suffering in order to find any redemp-
tion or freedom for the succeeding generations, but this suffering
needs to be conscious rather than blind . I cannot conceive of any
dilemma which has so much of the feeling of fate. Whatever factors
might have contributed to the unlived life of a woman like Renee,
this myth surely reflects the terror and confusion which life can
hold for one who is the inheritor of such conflicts.
Orestes cannot solve his own dilemma: He can appeal to the
gods who first got him into it, with trust that they will ultimately
get him out of it if they possess any justice at all. Although we have
seen how Apollo plays tricks and interferes with the development
of the House of Atreus, nevertheless Orestes, like Job, has a
patient faith in the divine powers which is the cornerstone of his
salvation. His fate lies with Apollo, and he accepts it. At no point
does he acquire hubris;perhaps for this reason Athene finally casts
her vote on his side. When he confronts his mother with drawn
sword, Klytaemnestra says: 'My blood will hound you: Orestes
does not pretend to be braver or more righteous than he is. He
simply replies: 'My father's blood already hounds me. So what can
I do?' He is not weak, but he has humility. He passes through exile
and pursuit always believing that in the end Apollo will fulfil his
pledge and provide a solution. This is an initiation of a most
profound kind: the defeat of the Terrible Mother which requires
great suffering for its creative resolution. Here family fate co-
incides with individual fate, for Orestes fights for his own individ-
ual freedom but the journey towards this freedom means a
Fate and the Family
121
thorough embrace with the sins of the family. He must become a
murderer like the rest, must violate blood-kin like the rest, and
must become as tainted as his progenitor Tantalos. Alternatively,
he might have been like Renee, and would never have been born.
The process of development of complexes within families has a
feeling both of teleology - movement towards a goal - and of
inevitability, just as the curse of the House of Atreus has an
inevitability. If one looks backwards from the conflicts and com-
pulsions of one's own drama, one may glimpse the family myth,
twisting and winding through father and mother, grandparents
and great-grandparents, endlessly uncoiling like the Stoics' vision
of Heimarmene, into the racialcollectiveunconscious.The myth of
Orestes and his family seems to suggest that whatever we are as
individuals, part and parcel of that personal identity is our inher-
itance, which sits upon us like fate and must be met and grappled
with in an individual way. It cannot be repudiated nor run away
from; it is not enough to model one's life on 'anything but mother
or father', for in so doing we are as surely dominated by them as if
we tried to be exactly like them. One may do what one can do, or
wishes to do, with an inheritance; but the inheritance itself cannot
be ignored or given away, for our families are our allotment, our
Moira.
5
Fate and Transformation
Theforce offate does notpenetrate themindunless themindofits
own accord hasfirst become submerged in the body, which is
subject to Fate . . . Everysoulshouldwithdraw from the
encumbranceofthebodyandbecome centred in themind,for then
Fate will discharge its force upon thebody without touching the
SOUI.61
Marsilio Fieino
Marsilio Ficino, Florentine philosopher, astrologer and magus,
offered in the second half of the fifteenth century the above advice
about freeing oneself from fate. In his horoscope at birth, accord-
ing to his own calculation, Saturn was rising in Aquarius in square
to the sun and Mars in Scorpio, a vicissitude about which he
ceaselessly moaned to his friends because he claimed that it always
made him depressed. That is not surprising since, in terms of
modern depth psychology, what he is advocating is dissociation. I
do not need to elaborate upon what this passage reveals of Ficino's
own personal conflict between reason and nature. Those natal
squares between the rational control of an Aquarian Saturn and the
combustible passions of a Scorpio sun and Mars phrase it quite
nicely. Fieino's advice is not unfamiliar to the modern astrologer,
for we have already met it in the words of Margaret Hone; nor is it
unfamiliar to those who espouse a Theosophical or 'spiritual'
approach to astrology. In essence it is the voice of Platonic doc-
trine, astrology's constant companion on its hoary journey from
Babylon, Egypt and Greece to the present day. From Plato's time
through the Neoplatonists of the early Christian era and the
Renaissance to Robert Fludd and William Lilly in the seventeenth
century, and again from the 'rediscovery' of astrology at the
beginning of this century to the followers of Blavatsky, Steiner
and Bailey today, astrology and the 'perennial philosophy' have
travelled hand in hand.
Fate and Transfonnation
123
In the preceding pages, we have been preoccupied with a
particular facet or experience of fate: Moira, the archetypal repre-
sentation of fate as instinct, body, family inheritance. The Platonic
philosopher, confronted with the darkness of matter and the dark
feminine face of Moira, tended to look towards the master's serene
and peculiarly masculine wisdom to cope with her challenges. Put
simply, the ancient dictum runs as follows: If you wish to free
yourself from the fate which is written upon the physical form by
the heavens (Heirnarmene), then you must free your mind from
the bondage of earthly things, for although Moira rules the world
of the senses, she cannot rule what Plato called the 'intelligible'
world of the spirit, of which the human essence is a divine spark
and offspring.
So much for free will. It exists, for the Platonist, only in the
non-corporeal. The body, brimming with passion and the seeds of
mortality, is full of fate. It is possible to countenance this develop-
ment in the history of philosophy as a valuable and necessary
progression from the fatalistic Mother-cults of pre-classical Greece
and the Middle East, which viewed life as nothing but an ema-
nation of the Mother and therefore as expendable. Man as magnum
miraculum, a being worthy of dignity and honour, emerged finally
in the Renaissance because of the gradual strengthening of the
spirit against Moira, first in the increasingly powerful figure of
Zeus, and ultimately in the spread of Christianity. But this
counterbalancing of fate with spirit simply leaves fate in the body
and in life. In terms of a modern individual's psychic life, it
represents to me a dissociation of spirit and body, which leaves
nothing in the middle, and poses enormous problems not only for
the body which is then forced to carry the burden of 'sin' but also
for the inner man who is then beset by compulsions and affects
which he cannot understand. The violent split which occurred in
the pre-classical Greek era between the Mother goddess and the
sky gods can be viewed as a natural development of human
consciousness. It is imaged in myth as the hero overcoming the
dragon, and retrieving the jewel of immortality from its head. But
the work with horoscope consultations and analysis has convinced
me that this Platonic (or Christian, for they are not so dissimilar as
they might at first seem) solution to the problem of fate is no longer
efficacious . We have come full circle now, and synchronous with
the discovery of Pluto I feel we are facing, individually and
collectively. the repercussions of that split and the necessity of a
resolution on an internal level.
Alchemy and magic, during their flowering in the first centuries
of the Christian era and during their second flowering in the
Renaissance, seem to have been, in part, methods devised for the
124
The Astrology of Fate
transformation of substance. In other words, they addressed
themselves to the altering of fate itself. Alchemy in particular
certainly sidled up to the heretical issue of tampering with nature,
and, by implication, transforming Moira and accomplishing
through human effort what God Himself could not do. But
alchemy
focused
its operations
upon
'physical'
substance.
Although Jung has amply demonstrated that alchemy dealt as
much with the psychic substance of man as with the substance of
metals, the alchemists themselves could not acknowledge what
they were really doing because they were unconscious of it.62 The
dominance of Moira was therefore not really questioned by col-
lective consciousness for a good many centuries, either by the
Platonists or by the Church, which, calling Moira by another name
and attributing her control of the body to Original Sin, advocated
the same thing as Plato: directing one's energy and one's efforts
towards the spiritual life. As the Corpus Hermeticum puts it:
Tat: There, 0 Father! the discourse concerning Fate .. . is in
danger of being overthrown. For if it is altogether fated to this
person to fornicate or commit sacrilege, or to do any other evil
something, why is he punished, he from necessity of Fate
having done this deed?
Hermes: All men are subject to Fate and to generation and
change; for these are the beginning and the end of Fate; and all
men indeed suffer things fated, but those with reason of whom
we have said that the Mind is Guide, suffer not in like manner
with the others, but having departed from Vice, not being evil,
suffer not evil.63
Approaching fate from the point of view of 'splitting' (I am here
using a psychological term to describe what I understand as a
dissociation between the mental/spiritual aspect of man which is
'good' and the physical/instinctual aspect which is 'bad') is, of
course, that of Eastern thought as well. The same formula is
offered to free oneself from the wheel of perpetual rebirth and
bondage to karma. The East too has an alchemical tradition, but, as
in the West, this tradition remained shrouded in secrecy, and the
full psychological implications of what it really dealt with have had
to wait until Wilhelm's Secret oftheGolden Flower was published in
the West with Jung's psychological introduction and commentary.
Plato's vision of the sensible or corporeal world as a shadowy,
imperfect reflection of the 'intelligible' world of Divine Ideas is
very close to the Eastern vision of man trapped in the world of maya
through many incarnations, striving to release himself from the
Thousand Things by merging with the One. He cannot alter
Fate and Transformation
125
karma, but he can 'defuse' it - withdraw his identification with his
suffering body - and influence the fatedness of future incarnations
by freeing his spirit, accepting the blows of fate with calm detach-
ment, and centring himself upon his inner unity with the divine.
Now, I am not in any way implying that this is a 'true' or 'false'
doctrine. Ihave no idea whether the physical world is maya and the
spirit the only eternal verity, and I am not a theologian and cannot
argue the point theoretically. But it is a universal doctrine, and has
been with us for an exceedingly long time. The similarity of Plato-
nism with Eastern thought is not really surprising, since Plato
absorbed most of his doctrine from Pythagoras, Parmenides, Hera-
clitus and Empedocles, who were in turn strongly influenced by
the religious and philosophical currents travelling from Egypt,
Babylon and points East. It isalso not surprising that the essentially
dualistic manner of coping with the fate that lives in the body is the
main viewpoint taken by astrologers today, ifthey are not preoccu-
pied with the mechanistic aspects of the study. Given that a horo-
scope maps out a fate of some kind, the client understandably
wishes to know, first and foremost, what he can do about it. The
more spiritually inclined astrological practitioner responds by
splitting the human being into above and below, with the very
attractive suggestion that identification with the above can make
the vicissitudes of the below more tolerable - and might even thin
them out a bit. Marsilio Ficino in the early stages of his long career
was really just another Neoplatonic astrologer trying to come to
terms with his bad Saturn aspects through becoming spiritual and
rising above it all. But Fieino's views altered considerably during
the course of his long life, probably because of his exposure to
magical and alchemical texts. Because of him, the prevailing views
of the Renaissance also changed, and inaugurated for future cen-
turies the possibility that man might have an active hand in God's
cosmos and might therefore validly attempt to make a different
relationship with fate. Fieino, it would be no exaggeration to state,
started the Florentine Renaissance virtually single-handed, for it
was he who translated Plato into Latin and made Neoplatonic texts
available to the Aristotle-steeped West for the first time since the
beginning of the Christian era. Even more importantly, he trans-
lated other Greek works - philosophical, astrological and magical-
which had been buried in Constantinople since the sack ofRome by
the Goths, and which were utterly unknown since the Church had
spread its influence throughout Europe.
One of these works was a compilation, in Greek, of gnostic and
hermetic texts which actually dated from the first three centuries
AD, but which Ficino mistakenly believed to be far older - contem-
porary with Moses. These texts, which to Ficino became a kind of
126
The Astrology of Fate
alternative Bible, were eventually called the Corpus Hermeticum,
and they were reputedly written by a great and aneient sage called
Hermes Trismegistus. If there ever was such a person, the Corpus
Hermeticum cannot have been written by him, since it is compiled
of several different authors' work over a period spanning three
centuries. But such scholarly dissection was not available in
fifteenth-century Florence. Fieino believed in Hermes, and before
long, so did everybody else. Embedded in the Corpus, among the
familiar Platonic doctrines about sensible and intelligible worlds
and astrological hierarchies and the role of Fate and Necessity in
ordering the material cosmos, there lay the declaration that one
could transform fate through magic. This, as I mentioned earlier,
was a belief cherished by alchemy, and the magic of the Corpus is
essentially alchemical. It is upon the metals, the raw substance of
the earth, that the Great Work is performed, and it is the spiritual
essence within the metals which is set free from Moira. This
alchemical magic is also astrological, in that it depends upon a
concordance of the heavens for the development of the work. As
Marie-Louise von Franz puts it:
The whole of alchemy depends upon the kairos, and he
[Zosimos, an alchemist] even calls the alchemical operation the
kairikai baphai, the kairos colouring. His theory is that chemical
processes do not always happen of themselves, but only at the
astrologically right moment; that is, if I am working with silver,
the moon, which is the planet of silver, must be in the right
position, and if I am working with copper, Venus has to be in a
certain constellation, otherwise these operations in silver and
copper will not work ... Taking the astrological constellation
into consideration is what is meant by this idea of kairikai baphae.
Kairos therefore at that time and in this connection means the
astrologically right time, the time when things can tum out
successfully.64
The insight at which Fieino arrived, which marks a turning
point (albeit unnoticed at the time) in philosophical thought and is
also relevant to our understanding of fate, is that alchemical magic
is not only applicable to the metals of the earth. It is also applica-
ble to man . Fieino therefore attempted to inaugurate a new
astrology, and he is sometimes mistakenly assumed to have
opposed astrology because of his rather virulent tracts and letters
against his fellow astrological practitioners. But if one actually
reads these tirades, it becomes apparent that it is not astrology
itself he is opposing. For Fieino, in his maturity, astrology was
debased by being used as a prognosticator of fate. He thought it
should serve a different function. A bad transit, for the average
Fate and Transjormation
127
medieval astrologer, meant a time when fate would deal a blow to
the individual which might be averted (it was considered worth
the effort) but probably could not be, and must therefore be
accepted in true Platonic spirit. To Fieino, a bad transit began to
emerge as a kairos, a right moment when a new relationship might
be made with fate through what he called 'natural' magic.
The pagan mind would never have dreamt of challenging Moira
in this way; it would have been the worst kind of hubris. Plato
championed the inner freedom of man's spirit, but his awesome
respect for fate is obvious by the central role he gives it in the
ordering of the universe. The Church had from its beginnings
always entertained a lively revulsion towards magic, and had
slithered away from the problem of fate in general and astrology in
particular during the Middle Ages by nominally condemning the
astrologer while secretly fostering his services, and by calling fate
Divine Providence, which no one was supposed to question
anyway. But Fieino understood the Corpus Hermeticum to be a
sacred text as old and authoritative as the Bible, and to him
Thrice-Greatest Hermes seemed to be saying that man was a
magus, a great miracle, who was entitled to tamper with the
cosmos because he partieipated in the nature of both God and
Moira together.
From the two natures, the deathless and the mortal, He made
one nature - that of man - one and the self-same thing; and
having made man both somehow deathless and somehow
mortal, He brought him forth, and set him up betwixt the
godlike and immortal nature and the mortal, that seeing all he
might wonder at all.65
Man according to this vision, is no mere passive receptacle for
the forces of fate. Nor is he a lowly being contaminated with
Original Sin who can only be redeemed through the doctrines of
the Church. He is not driven by his despair to seek escape from the
corruption of flesh and ancestral sin through redemption by the
spirit. He is a proud and noble co-ereator in God's creative cosmos,
and by his efforts he can reunite God and Moira so that body and
spirit are no longer rent in twain. The following passage from the
Corpus became the rallying cry for the enlightened Renaissance
magus:
And so, Asklepios, man is a magnum miraculum, a great miracle:
a creature worthy of worship and honour. For he shares in the
nature of God as though he himself were God. He shares the
substance of the daimones, for he knows he has a common origin
with them. 66
128
TheAstrology of Fate
Naturally all this had a profound effect on Marsilio Fieino. From
being a Platonist, he became a Hermetist. Four centuries before
lung, he took the dictates of the Corpus in an entirely new way.
Ficino's system of 'natural' magic managed to offend neither
Moira, the Church, nor astrology - a delicate operation, but then,
Aquarius is known for its ability to get on with everybody. The key
to Fieino's magic was theimagination. As we might define it today, it
dealt with the transformation of man's nature through experience
of, and interchange with, the world of images which we would
now call the fantasy products of the unconscious.This interchange
had to occcur at the kairos, the astrologically propitious moment.
As Charles Boer states in his introduction to Ficino's Book of Life,
Marsilio was the first depth psychologist.
The Book of Life includes a number of recipes for medicines,
meditations, music and talismans by which the Divine Images
might be experienced and the fates gently persuaded in one's
favour. Ficino's increasing philosophical sophistication isdiscerni-
ble in a letter written several years after the extract quoted at the
beginning of this chapter:
Then if the Fates cannot be avoided, they are foreseen and
foretold to no purpose. Yet if they can be avoided by some
method, the inevitability of Fate is falsely maintained by astrol-
ogers. They will probably say, I suppose, that this also is in the
Fates, that once in a while one thing out of many may be
foreknown and guarded against. Thus it follows that among the
Fates there will be contention, so that one will be determined to
harm a man and another to protect him. 67
This seems to accord with what lung says of the inherent ambi-
valence and paradoxical nature of the unconscious. On the one
hand, the unconseious as Mother holds back her child, threatening
to devour him if he seeks to develop beyond her allotted bound-
aries. On the other hand, the unconscious as anima or soul spurs
the individual into extending himself into life and challenging the
bondage of family fate and primitive instinct. Ficino was very
angered by the sort of astrology that allowed no room for a little
contention among the Fates. Once he had got his hands on the
Corpus Hermeiicum, he was convinced that images had the power to
alter or mediate the effects of planetary fate on the physical plane.
Here we are in the terrain of analytical psychology, where the
symbol has an almost magical capacity to mediate between the
blind world of instinct and the rational world of the ego through a
transformation of libido or psychic energy. In the BookofLife, Ficino
wildly quotes every magical and Neoplatonic authority he can find
- Ptolemy (whose Tetrabiblos and Almagest form the basis of
Fate and Transformation
129
modern
astrology),
Plotinus,
Iamblichus,
Porphyry
(whose
system of house division is still in use today), Firmicus Maternus
(whom we shall meet later), and of course Hermes Trismegistus -
to back up his conviction that if one makes a magical talisman
either physically or, more importantly, psychically - which is
composed of the proper correspondences with the heavenly
bodies, and which is comprised of traditional (i.e. archetypal or
mythic) images - then in some way the divine stuff of the cosmos in
its 'natural' state of harmony might be drawn down into the
talisman and directly affect the 'body of the world' (or the body of
the magus) which otherwise is so sadly subject to the blows of fate.
Those readers who have any experience of work with dreams,
active imagination and guided imagery will no doubt have already
recognised where this apparent digression into Renaissance magic
is leading. Fieino was a humble man, and in no way filled with the
inflation of later magi such as Cornelius Agrippa and Giordano
Bruno, both of whom forgot that all alchemical works, mineral or
human, must be performed Deo concedenie, that is, according to the
will of God. Such a quality is, of course, the only safeguard against
hubris and its nemesis, whether one is a Greek hero, a Renaissance
magus or a modern astrologer or analyst. Fieino never thought it
was he who accomplished the magic. He thought it was the gods,
or the quarrelling Fates who could not agree about whether they
wanted to be persuaded. What Fieino's system of magic represents
from a psychological point of view very much concerns us now,
because if one considers the horoscope as the written law of the
heavens, or, put another way, as one's fate, then there are differ-
ent levels upon which that fate might enact itself. These different
levels are perhaps intimately connected with the inner attitude of
the individual and with his relationship, or lack thereof, with the
world of images and symbols. In other words, fate may be an inner
psychological pattern as much as an issue of the body. This is
apparent in the preceding chapter, in the fate of Renee R.
For Fieino, as for his master Plato, the real world was not the
corporeal one, but the world of Ideas, eidolos, or, as lung might put
it, the archetypes of the collective unconseious. Fate is natural law.
In this sense it is archetypal, an ordering principle or pattern.
Moira represents the innate mortality and justice of the world of
the instincts. But the world of the instincts is a blind world, a realm
of bodily compulsions and evolutionary necessity. It is violently
resistant to any transgression or attempt to bend its boundaries
because survival itselfthenseemstobe threatened,and thenatural
order broken. The Fates themselves quarrel, according to Ficino;
prima materia is in a state of conflict, confusion and collision of
opposites within itself. But this blind world of instinct is not really
130
The Astrology of Fate
separate from the world of eidolos or archetypes. As we have seen,
Jung believed that the dominant archetypes such as the Great
Mother, the Wise Old Man, transformation, the Trickster, the
anima et al., are images of instincts, the self-portrayal of innate
human patterns of development that possess both an organic
behavioural determinism and a psychological experience of
meaning.
For Ficino, the world of images - whether these were derived
from dreams (his own) or myth (Greek and the synchretistic
mythic variations of the first centuries AD) - were a kind of middle
ground, a place in between the abstract and inaccessible world of
imageless Ideas and the dense world of Moira-bound matter. For
[ung, likewise, symbolic products of the psyche hold the border-
land between the formal world of the archetypes and the daylight
world of consciousness. These images are the 'stuff' in between,
the anima mundi or soul of the world. They and their ground of
psychic substance fall under the governorship of Hermes, lord of
borders and roadways and crossroads, who in alchemy is called
Mercurius. The planets, in Ficino's new astrology, are not only
physical bodies in space but images within the psychic world of
man, and also metals within the earth itself. Somewhere in the
'intelligible' world are the Ideas which correspond to these mortal
expressions. The planetary images as Fieino conceived them are
the bridge between worlds, through which the individual can
slowly unite what is below with what is above, so that, in the
words of the Corpus, the miracle of the One may be accomplished.
This raises a very profound question about exactly what 'happens'
when the astrologer interprets a horoscope to a client, for both
astrologer and client inhabit, for that time, the 'middle ground'
that unites the above and the below.
Ficino's anima mundi bears a strong relationship with the 'objec-
tive psyche' as lung calls it, the indefinable world-stuff which
stretches across the boundaries between psyche and body,
between spirit and substance, which belongs to both and to
neither, and which is accessible to us through the images of our
dreams and fantasies. Work on this stuff in accordance with one's
natal pattern, suggests Fieino, and one builds the connecting link
(or participates in a link which is already existent but unexper-
ienced) between God and his creation, between Ideas and cor-
poreal reality, between archetype and instinct, between freedom
and fate. As Frances Yates puts it in her study of Renaissance
hermetic magic:
Hence such Images would become forms of the Ideas, or ways of
approaching the Ideas at a stage intermediary between their
Fate and Transfonnation
131
purely intellectual forms in the divine mens and their dimmer
reflection in the world of sense, or body of the world. Hence it
was by manipulating such images in this intermediary 'middle
place' that the ancient sages knew how to draw down a part of
the soul of the world into their shrines . . . There is, further, in
Ficino's words, the notion that the material forms in the world of
sense can be, as it were, re-formed, when they have degener-
ated, by manipulation of the higher images on which they
depend. 68
I must admit that I cannot find any great difference between the
'manipulation' of images in the intermediary 'middle place' to
draw down part of the world-soul into a religious shrine, and the
same process applied to the building and ornamentation of our
great contemporary religious edifices. The word 'manipulate' is a
problematic one, for although the Renaissance magus (a title Ficino
timidly backed away from, although later magi such as Agrippa
gloried in the title) believed he had the right to work with the stuff
of God's cosmos, it would seem from the actual fate of some of
them that God's cosmos - or the unconscious - had a tendency to
hit back against too much identification with the magician's role.
Hubris and nemesis are evidently laws which are still in force, even if
some connection is made with the world of images and the
meaning of fate is interiorised. Pico della Mirandola, Ficino's
disciple, was murdered, and Giordano Bruno was burned at the
stake. These hazards of the profession notwithstanding, one
cannot help admiring the spirit in which these men challenged the
blind adherence to superstition and dogma which surrounded
them. Ficino himself seems to have been an unusually self-effacing
man, particularly unusual for a Scorpio, but perhaps his efforts at
self-understanding and relationship with what we would now call
the unconscious did indeed bring him greater harmony. He was
certainly very long-lived, unusual for his time, and pursued a
remarkably tranquil life. But hubris has a tendency to formulate
very quickly when entering this mysterious terrain of the inner
images which bind us to our fates. This is an incessant problem for
the psychotherapist, and for the astrologer as well. Our modern
equivalents for Ficino and his peers are the workers in psychology
and astrology, in particular those who traverse the circuitous path
of the unconscious psyche; and our dangers are perhaps even
greater than our Renaissance predecessors, because they could
shift the 'cure' onto the magical talisman, while we are faced with
the necessity of not taking personally the archetypal projections of
our clients while still feeling that we can in some way be effective or
helpful.
132
The Astrology of Fate
Apart from the difficulties of entering into the intermediary
'middle place', there is the problem of comprehending what it
might mean. Does fate really transform? Or is it the attitude of the
individual towards whatever is his necessity that changes, and
therefore creates a new relationship with fate which is permeated
with a subjective sense of meaning and choice? Perhaps this is
what lung means by free will being the ability to do gladly what
one must do, for the operative word is 'gladly', implying a dis-
covery of meaningfulness which makes the fate feel 'right' and
what one would have chosen oneself. Or is it that fate dictates a
pattern which cannot be altered but leaves open the possibility that
the pattern may manifest itself in several different modes, through
several different levels of experience? Whatever the answer might
be - and I do not possess it - something certainly seems to happen
through encounter with that 'middle place'. It is this 'something'
which I would now like to explore further.
The vitality and truth of these difficult and abstruse concepts is
to be found in actual lives, and in the ongoing process of individual
work on the psyche in conjunction with the planetary transits
which formulate as images in dreams and as events in outer life.
Earlier I quoted the dream of a young woman whom I called Ruth,
who was pursued in her inner and outer life by the figure of a
violent man . I mentioned that the dream figure changed as our
work on it progressed, and that he began to assume a more helpful
guise. At a certain point in the process the man appeared in a
dream asking to be killed and eaten, and this coincided with Ruth's
decision, and capacity, to break away from a destructive and
stifling relationship in which she had felt paralysed and unable to
either respond or leave. This change occurred during the long
transit of Uranus in opposition to natal Mars and squaring natal
Pluto. 'Something' obviously happened. But what?
I will now give a lengthier summary of some of the develop-
ments in Ruth's analysis. Her birth chart is reproduced below.
This case history is neither bizarre nor spectacular. Although its
subject is an unusual person with many creative gifts and a deep
degree of sensitivity and receptivity to the inner world, the prob-
lems from which she has suffered are, at core, basic human
problems whose patterns are archetypal. The failures and suc-
cesses within the analysis are also not spectacular, and Ruth has
not been 'cured' because there was nothing to cure her of. But the
dreams which follow provide an unusually vivid picture of a small
portion of that awesome process which lung refers to as the
individuation process, and which is also, in my view, a process of
coming to terms with fate. The dream below occurred at the
beginning of the analysis, and dreams that occur at this time are
Fate and Transjormation
Me
133
A
IC
DIAGRAM 9. Birth horoscope of Ruth
b. 19 February 1959
6.40 p.m .
London
D
often deeply significant because they encapsulate the individual's
problem, its archetypal background, and its potential for resolu-
tion. They are the road signs for further exploration of the 'middle
place'.
I am in a small boat with a man. The sea is very violent and a
storm is raging. It is quite dark. The boat is not very sound. The
man seems to be steering the boat toward some rocks. I know
that if we crash into the rocks we will be killed; the boat is not
strong enough to take the impact. Icannot tellwhether the man
is trying to destroy us, or whether he does not realise how
deadly the rocks are. I try to get him to steer the other way, but
134
TheAstrologyof Fate
he seems determined and is much stronger than Iam. Iwake up
in panic, not knowing whether we will hit the rocks or not.
This dream communicates a subjective experience of great
danger. How this situation might translate itself in Ruth's outer life
is not yet clear, but the violent waters of the unconscious and the
threatening rocks of external reality have between them placed her
in a very precarious position. On a personal level, I understood
this dream to be speaking of the 'ship of life', the individual
consciousness or ego, and here it is not very sound. Ruth's
relationship with her physical reality was not very stable at the
time we began work, and her sense of being 'contained' in life was
minimal. The man is a highly ambiguous figure; he may be
attempting to destroy her, or he may be attempting to rescue her,
but she is not prepared to trust his guidance, for it seems to her that
the direction in which he is steering her can have no outcome other
than destruction. One of lung's definitions of the animus is that, in
a woman's psyche, the unconscious personifies itself as a mascu-
line figure, portraying its creative and directional attributes. So, in
the context of this dream, one might say that it is the unconscious
which steers her towards the threatening rocks, and it is difficult to
know whether this intent is destructive or redemptive.
The damaged boat, which seems to represent a damaged ego or
container, is not surprising when we consider Ruth's horoscope.
The opposition of the moon in Cancer and Saturn in Capricorn
across the parental houses suggests that neither parent was able to
provide her with any sense of security, since they were so busy
being unhappy themselves. The atmosphere in Ruth's childhood
was a critical and destructive one. I have already mentioned
something of the mother's own unhappy circumstances. Having
the moon in Cancer in the house which governs the mother, Ruth's
extraordinary sensitivity to the unspoken emotional currents of
her environment and of her mother in particular left her peculiarly
vulnerable to the underworld of her parents' psyches, and she
could not be deceived as to the actual appalling state of affairs
existing within the parental marriage and within the mother and
father themselves. Pluto placed in the twelfth house, as I have
already mentioned, also gives a great sensitivity to the collective
darkness which lurks behind the individual's birth, the 'ancestral
sins' which have been accruing for many generations. Ruth experi-
enced this insight as 'bad', a response not untypical of many
children, for if nothing is brought out into the open and the child
experiences destructive undercurrents he will often take them for
his own. This is exacerbated in Ruth's horoscope by the sun in
opposition to Pluto, for this 'family darkness' is within her as well
Fate and Transformation
135
as within the parents; and a child cannot be expected to differen-
tiate/ but will simply accept the entire package as though it is his
own fault and his own creation .
Ruth's relationship with her mother was permeated by a feeling
of rejection and criticism. She knew that she was hurt and angry
because of this treatment, and her feelings of outrage were very
conscious. About her father she was much more vague. He
seemed 'weak' to her, but she did not have any clear feeling of who
he was, or what she felt towards him. Another early dream
brought up into the light facets of her relationship with her father
which were far more disturbing and shed considerable light on
some of the components which had built up the image of the
terrible pursuing man in her dreams.
Iam in my room with a baby kitten which Iam taking care of. My
father suddenly comes in through the door. I hardly recognise
him, for he seems terribly angry and has black horns on his
head. He sees the kitten playing on the floor and kicks it all the
way across the room. I rush after it weeping, frightened that he
has killed it, and even more frightened that he will become
violent towards me.
This dream, needless to say, provoked considerable upset and
anxiety in Ruth. She was forced by the contents of the dream to
confront the 'real' situation existing between her and her father:
that very great anger lurked beneath his 'weak' surface, and that
this anger had been directed against her young femininity/ sugges-
ted by the kitten she is taking care. of. His violence is directed
against her instincts, her female development. The horns on his
head are a curious image; Ruth first associated them with the devil,
but as we discussed the dream further she also connected them
with the horns of a bull, suggesting a terrifying phallic power in
her father of which she had been utterly unconscious. Put simply,
the dream seems to be suggesting that the father's repressed
sexuality/ poisoned with rage, was directed against Ruth herself. It
is an image of psychic rape, for he enters her 'room'/ her own
psychological space, and injures the helpless young animal which
she is attempting to nurture and care for.
Ruth's earlier dream about the boat, when we add the insights
gained from the second dream, seems to describe something more
than a dangerous situation where the frail ego, not very well
adapted to the demands of outer life, is being buffeted by violent
and powerful unconscious drives and emotions. It is not surpris-
ing/ in light of the nature of Ruth's unconscious perception of her
father, that she does not trust the man in the boat, for the father is
the first hook upon which a young girl projects the animus. If the
136
The Astrology of Fate
father is violent and treacherous, then the directional power of the
unconscious seems to be so likewise. The sea journey she is
attempting to make in the dream emerges as an initiatory journey,
an attempt to make the passage away from the parental back-
ground and out into her own life. This is the mythic nekyia, the
night-sea journey, here taking place in a leaky boat with a highly
ambivalent captain.
Bearing this initial dream in mind, my early work with Ruth was
focused upon the strengthening of the boat - in other words, the
strengthening of her relationship to ordinary life, through reduc-
tive work on her parental relationships and through fostering as
much as possible her trust in her relationship with me. This work
did not directly confront the problem of the violent man, who
meanwhile appeared in threatening form regularly in her dreams,
sometimes with her father's face, sometimes with a stranger's.
Ruth was too terrified of him to be able to deal with him as a
psychic factor in herself. But as her sense of her own reality
increased, the image of the violent man began to change. This
coincided with her capacity to voice rage towards the father who
had dealt with her so brutally on such a completely covert level.
Following is a dream which shows the first inklings of a change.
I am wandering through the wards of a hospital. There is a man
lying sick on a bed in the middle of a corridor. He is completely
covered with syphilitic sores. He watches me malevolently, and
I know that he is going to try to infect me with his sickness.
Perhaps he has already, for I realise that he has touched me as I
brushed past. I see a kind of cafe table set up, where my mother
and father are sitting. My father looks ashamed and cannot look
at me in the face, but my mother is gloating.
Here a new facet of this troublesome and frightening autonomous
psychic force emerges: the man is 'sick', rather than evil and
violent, and is in a hospital needing attention and treatment. He
has 'infected' Ruth with his venereal disease - i.e. with his sense of
sexual shame and guilt. The shame-faced father at the table Ruth
immediately connected with the sick man, as though they were in
some way the same person; when she allowed herself to fantasise
about this dream, she concluded that this was her father's sexual
sickness passed on to her, for her to 'carry'. She felt that her mother
gloated because it was preferable for Ruth to carry the guilt and
suffering. This is a particularly ugly image of a 'passing on' of
something from parents to child. The sense of dirtiness which
Ruth felt about her own body seemed to be directly described by
this dream, and the source from which it stemmed. One of the
more optimistic features of the dream is that the 'sick' man and
Fate and Transformation
137
Ruth's father are separate people, although linked by the 'passing
on' of the sickness; and this suggests to me the possibility of an
increasing separation between the father and Ruth's 'inner' man.
Sometimes Ruth's dreams connected the violent man with the
father, and sometimes with the mother. That the attributes of
anger, violence and darkness are related to both parents is
reflected by the grand cross in Ruth's chart, involving the Mars-
Pluto square already discussed, the sun, Mercury and Jupiter. This
grand cross has one axis along the meridian, which to me repre-
sents the axis of parental inheritance. It is a shared problem, a
family complex, and the 'release point' of this grand cross is
through Ruth's sun in Pisces in the sixth house, this being the most
personal point of the configuration. Thus the problems of sup-
pressed rage, violence and sexual 'shame' interfere with, challenge
and ultimately stimulate the development of Ruth's own identity.
During the period in which Ruth and I worked with these and
other dreams, her outer life was still dominated by the violent
relationship in which she had become enmeshed. Connections
began to emerge between the man with whom she lived and the
father who had terrified her, and her mother, on such a subter-
ranean level. The full impact of the battle between mother and
father became visible to her, and as this material was brought to the
surface by the dreams and discussed, Ruth was gradually able to
distinguish the outlines of her own identity from the battlefield in
which she had been born . The following dream, much later in the
analysis, reflects the degree to which Ruth has begun to make a
more creative relationship with the animus, who first appeared in
such ambiguous guise piloting her boat:
I am in a house, which has been demolished and is under
reconstruction. The entire interior has been gutted, but the work
of rebuilding is progressing slowly. I am in what will be the
living room, trying to get across the room to the other side. But
the floorboards have been ripped out, and there is a gaping
black hole. A long way down I can see black water. As I stand
paralysed at the edge of the hole, a man emerges from the cellar.
He is one of the workmen, a black man dressed in a miner's tin
hat. He reassures me and shows me some strong boards which
have been laid across the opening, over which I can safely cross
to the other side.
This dream needs no interpretation. It describes itself very
precisely. What is most relevant is that the black man - Hades-
Pluto, the pursuer and rapist - here emerges from the watery pit of
the underworld, and rather than dragging Ruth down with him is
instead offering her safe passage.
138
The Astrology of Fate
I will mention one final dream in the long. circuitous series
which followed and heralded the equally long, circuitous process
of Ruth's gradual separation from the parental darkness and the
increasing acceptance of her own complex nature.
I am in a vast underground network of shops, like a big Amer-
ican shopping complex. I see a jewellery shop with some attrac-
tive pieces in the window. The place is filled with very beautiful,
precious objects everywhere, but they are far beyond the price I
can pay. The man in the shop smiles at me, and gives me an
exquisite gold ring.
This dream too needs no elaboration. I will merely repeat that the
word 'Pluto' in Greek means 'riches'. Here he offers freely,
without extracting a price; presumably this is because Ruth has
been willing to pay the price already, that of relationship with him.
These sparse fragments from a lengthy and often difficult analy-
tic process seem to offer some insight into the problem of fate and
transformation. They reflect something which frequently occurs
not only in analytic work, but in life itself, through any creative
meeting with the unconscious. Something does indeed happen. I
do not feel that it is the analyst who 'makes' it happen, for the
analyst is only the facilitator who provides a safe place in which the
individual can meet the denizens of his own unknown nature. The
process runs itself, and it seems to require a kairos, an astrologically
propitious moment. This process, which lung understood as
individuation, does not have to take place within the psychothera-
pist's consulting room; this only becomes relevant if the disturb-
ance between ego and unconscious has become too great, and the
individual can no longer contain what is erupting from within. But
whether in therapy or in life, this process is not without suffering,
for the encounter with the inner images challenges and hurts the
ego, forcing the individual to re-evaluate many things. This is, in a
sense, an encounter with one's fate. The grand cross present in
Ruth's horoscope, involving the difficult Mars-Pluto square and
sun-Pluto opposition, suggests that the violent man, in some
form, is Ruth's fate. She cannot escape him, for he is written into
her horoscope at birth. He is both a collective and an individual
fate, and is an integral part of her psyche. The aspect between
Pluto and the sun guarantees this; it is not just Ruth's past, but her
present and her future which she must share with him. But the
determined destructiveness with which he first presented himself
is connected, in part, with the network of Ruth's family relation-
ships, and with the degree to which neither parent would give this
psychic figure room or value or expression. He was already
inflamed and violent before Ruth was born . Had she made no
Fate andTransformation
139
effort to confront this figure, she would have been fated to meet
him perpetually in her outer life. Yet the effort was not wholly
choice; in a sense, the psyche itself coerced her into this con-
frontation.
That Ruth decided to enter analysis is not the decisive factor, for
many people decide to undergo some form of psychotherapy who
are not able, despite the efforts of the therapist, to form such a
relationship with the inner world; and others form it without
benefit of external help. Much of the key to the changes which
occurred in Ruth seems to lie in Ruth herself, and her willingness
to accept responsibility for some part of the violent lifein which she
had become caught. This willingness seems an obvious thing, but
it is exceedingly difficult and painful when one's circumstances
seem so clearly to be somebody else's fault. It is possible that the
very configuration which corresponds to the destructive figure of
the man is the same one which has given her the depth and insight
to learn more about him. This is the double edge of Pluto, who both
destroys and heals.
I would not be inclined to suggest, from the material given
above, that Ruth's fate has changed. I do not feel it has, any more
than her birth horoscope has changed. Pluto, and the dark man,
will be with her all her life. But it is his manifestations that have
changed, although he is still capable of great anger and violence;
and Ruth's outer life has changed in accord with the inner
movement. She no longer needs to act this destructiveness out,
and is therefore able to make relationships in which she is treated
with some respect for her own value - because she is better able to
value herself. Ruth has also begun to see other possibilities for the
expression of her 'dark' animus, for she had, when younger,
entertained the idea of entering medical school, and this aspiration
has now begun to renew itself. Thus she is preparing herself for
meeting the image of death, and the image of healing, in an
entirely different form. Pursuing a creative career in which she can
work with and for this archetypal image is very different from
being pursued by it in nightmare and in life. Interestingly, this
aspiration to embed the Plutonian figure in such a vocation reflects
the traditional reading of the sun placed in the sixth house. Thus
the sun, the symbol of the ego consciousness, is not quite such a
leaky boat, for it can now carry her over the water.
Developments such as these raise innumerable unanswerable
questions. If something like the figure of the violent man - echoed
by the Mars-Pluto square in the horoscope - can 'change' during a
transit of Uranus, what is it that really changes? Is it really the
violent man, or is it Ruth's attitude towards him, or is it both? If
this can happen for Ruth, can it happen for anyone? To the first
140
The Astrology of Fate
question, I would be inclined to answer, both, although I do not
really know; to the second, I do not know. There are some things
which seem irrevocable, such as drastic illness, deformity and
death. All the psychologising in the world will not interiorise these
manifestations of fate. Nor will all the psychologising in the world
help Renee R., nor did it help Timothy S. But one's relationship
with these unchangeable things can change, and it is possible to
find meaning in what at first seems to be cruel chance or a
malicious fate. Outer and inner reflect each other, and if an inner
meaning emerges linked with an act of outer fate, then one's
relationship with that fate has changed. Sometimes the form in
which the fate manifests changes too. There is a great mystery here
which I cannot begin to fathom.
Some attempts at dealing with the inner world succeed, and
others fail, and it is difficult sometimes to know why. Sometimes
an individual will choose (if that is the right word) not to meet his
fate on any level other than the concrete one; thus, in a sense, he
fates himself. I am reminded here of a woman who once came to
see me because she was having great difficulties with her husband.
Both husband and wife had the sun in Pisces, but I did not obtain
any other birth data from her. The husband was a psychiatric
patient, who had suffered a number of breakdowns. During their
long married life she had played the role of devoted nurse and
helper. That she loved him deeply was without question; but love
can sometimes have Plutonian undercurrents, although it is no
less love. This woman was the strong, sane partner, her husband
the sick, alienated one; thus they had, unconsciously, agreed long
ago. But the husband decided to enter psychotherapy, rather than
perpetuate his endless cycle of breakdown, medication and tem-
porary rehabilitation. Perhaps Uranus was at work in his chart; but
whatever astrological configuration was affecting him, it seemed
he suddenly decided to try to get to the bottom of what was the
matter with him. This situation had begun to bear fruit, and his
wife had begun to panic, for this sick and apparently helpless man
began gaining some insight into some of his repressed anger
towards her and towards the mother-son relationship into which
their marriage had crystallised long ago . As this anger came to the
surface, my analysand became frightened that after so many years
she might lose him. She brought me the following dream at our
second meeting:
My husband and I are driving to lung's house, where we will be
shown a film. At first the journey is comfortable. But the
landscape becomes unfamiliar, and I become uneasy. Then I
realise with horror that the car is driving itself. We arrive at
Fate and Transformation
141
Jung's house. My husband walks through the front door. The
film is being run in colour, or so we have been told, but when I
glimpse it it seems to be in black and white. I cannot go through
the doorway, because a sick woman is lying across the thresh-
old. I do not want to go near her, but cannot step over her to join
my husband.
My analysand told me that the sick woman reminded her of a
woman she had known in childhood, a rather tragic figure who
had been in and out of mental institutions and finally committed
suicide. She was visibly distressed and repelled when talking
about this dream-woman, and said that she felt no desire at all in
the dream to offer any help. She just wanted to go away. The
rapidity with which this dream-image had surfaced caused me to
ask her whether she felt this woman might have anything at all to
do with her. Her reply was very vehement. She stared at me for a
moment, and said: 'I don't want to know who she is. I don't want
to help her . Idon't want to have anything todo with her.' After this
meeting, I never saw the woman again. The interview shook me,
because I felt that at the moment I had asked her the question, she
understood, on some profound level, the choice which lay before
her, although I had not offered any interpretation of any kind of
the dream, or of her difficulties. She could not cross the threshold
into Jung'shouse - for it was analysis she had come to see me about
- because the sick woman blocked her path. Her own sickness,
which was acted out by her sick husband, prevented her from any
further development. Interestingly, the dream suggests that her
vision of lifeis rendered colourless because of this problem, for she
can only see in black and white a film which everyone else
perceives in Technicolor. Or perhaps this is a comment on her
capacity to understand things only in a 'black and white' sense. But
she would not take responsibility for this inner woman. I am quite
certain that in making this choice - however understandable a
choice it is, considering the pain inherent in such a self-confron-
tation - she invoked an external fate, for her marriage was already
disturbingly shaky. The likelihood of an actual separation is
increased, if not inevitable, for the husband had already begun to
find other women interesting, and if he continued to grow in
insight and no longer needed to be the 'sick' one, he would
probably find another woman who could support his masculinity
rather than colluding in its castration. This is a sad and deeply
ironic case, because from the point of view of the outer world, the
wife was a model of patience and compassion, and if she is
abandoned the outer world will blame the husband. Nor will my
analysand ever really understand why such a thing should happen
142
The Astrology of Fate
to her. But one cannot make another person's deeision for him; nor
can one spare another suffering. I have rarely seen so vivid an
example of an individual confronting his fate and turning away.
Whatever Fieino's 'natural' magic might have been, it was
certainly an attempt to make a connection with the aneient images
that emerge from the depths of the psyche. Fieino thought this
might help the Fates to look with more favour upon man. Psycho-
therapy is certainly a place where encounter with fate occurs; but
perhaps the modem world has produced such things as psycho-
therapy because we have lost the capacity to make our own
connections naturally through myth and religion and ritual. Sowe
must seek our gods within, and, in seeking them, find instead
ourselves and our fates. Something happens when a connection is
made between an outer event and an inner image. If the astrologi-
cal patterns shape our fate, then they describe not only 'body' but
also 'soul', for this fate is inner as well as outer. For this reason I
have never been happy with the Platonic approach to astrology,
such as Margaret Hone suggests. Nor is this fate potential in a
general way, dependent on whether a person is clever enough to
utilise it. Ruth's violent man is not a general potential. He is a com-
pulsion, and she had no choice but to encounter him and try to
come to terms with him. His image is that of the rapist, and this
archetypal image has manifested in very concrete terms in her life.
That is hardly 'potential' in the sense that Jeff Mayo describes it.
I would now like to digress into the past again, and trace the
viewpoint of astrology towards fate before Ficinobegan to meddle
with it. Ficino's contribution is still with us, for the line passes
down from him to his diseiple Pico della Mirandola, and thence to
Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus, and from Paracelsus to Goethe,
Mesmer and eventually lung. But Fieino's insights did not affect
the whole of astrology, for many of his peers clung to the old way
of viewing fate, with the old Platonic solution to its problems. This
viewpoint our own modem astrology has inherited. The horosco-
pic art of the Middle Ages to which Ficino himself was heir sprang
from two primary sources. Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos and Almagest
comprise the first, and Ptolemy, as might be expected, was firmly
steeped in the Platonic tradition:
The movement of the heavenly bodies, to be sure, is eternally
performed in accord with divine, unchangeable destiny.69
Ptolemy is not the only founding father of astrology, and
perhaps he is not the most important. Julius Firmicus Maternus
wrote his Mathesis in the fourth century AD, when Greek and
Roman paganism, Near Eastern and Hellenised Egyptian mystery
cults, Jewish and early Christian gnosticism and kabbalism,
Fate and Transformation
143
Persian dualism and early Church Fathers were all weaving their
myriad colourful religious strands together in a great patchwork of
syncretism, the likes of which were not seen again until Ficino's
Renaissance and not afterward until lung. Like Ptolemy, Firmicus
was a committed Platonist; unlike Ptolemy, he was also a Christian
gnostic, and it is not surprising that his particular astrological
viewpoint was equally if not more popular than Ptolemy's in the
Renaissance because he acknowledged the importance of the
Trinity. The Matheseos Libri VIIl (Eight Books on the Theory of
Astrology) stands as the final and most complete work on
astrology in the classical world. It was the primary channel for
classical astrology into medieval and Renaissance thought. Firrni-
cus borrowed from Ptolemy as well as from numerous Near
Eastern sources, and he has a great deal to say about fate. His
recommendations about predictive astrology became part and
parcel of the Renaissance astrologer's stock in trade. Although we
modern astrologers quite naturally wish to disown all that medie-
val claptrap, particularly the claptrap about fate, there is one very
annoying obstacle to such disowning. Those fatalistic Renaissance
astrologers were unusually accurate in their predictions. But there
is an even more fascinating aspect to it all. The configurations upon
which they based their predictions, which worked unerringly in
the concrete world five hundred years ago, have lost their reliabi-
lity. Thus we are faced with the problem of the changing - or
transforming - manifestations of fate in the collective over history.
and it is this theme which I would like to explore further. To do
this, I must first tell a story.
In the Year of Our Lord 1555, His Most Christian Majesty King
Henri IIof France, then aged thirty-seven years, was warned by an
astrologer to beware of death during single combat in an enclosed
space through an injury to the head, in the summer of his forty-
second year. The astrologer in question was one of the better-
known savants of the time, an Italian called Luca Gaurica,
Latinised, acccording to the fashion, into Gauricus. Signor Gauri-
cus published a great work in three volumes on the principles of
astrology. Called Opera Omnia, it may still be read in the British
Library, if one can struggle with his Latin; unfortunately it has
never been translated. Opera Omnia expounds not only the casting
and interpretation of natal horoscopes, but also judicial (horary)
and political (mundane) astrology as well. Included among the
example horoscopes is that of the unfortunate King Henri II.
Gauricus had successfully predicted crises and deaths in the lives
of numerous rulers and noblemen, including the defeat of King
Francois I at the battle of Pavia and the demise of the Due de
Bourbon on the walls of Rome during its sack in 1527. Therefore his
144
The Astrologyof Fate
warning to the King of France was treated with some respect. This
tells us several things about the astrology of the time. It was, apart
from Ficino's followers, predictive rather than characterological, it
was respected in all the courts of Europe despite the Church's
nominal repudiation (many notable princes of the Church were
themselves astrologers), and it passed the responsibility for
human benefits and catastrophes firmly into the broad lap of
Moira. Gauricus did not dabble in Fieino's 'natural' magic. If he
prophesied that King Henri was going to die, then die he would,
although the prediction was couched, according to etiquette, as a
'warning'. Even the King himself did not think to question it, but
replied that he would as soon die an honourable death in open
combat as in any other, possibly ignoble, fashion. (The King was
an Aries, which might have had some bearing on his courageous
but rather foolhardy response.)
Another astrologer contemporary with Gauricus also issued a
'warning' about King Henri's death. This was Michel de Notre-
dame, whom history knows as Nostradamus, and who inserted
into the Centuries, his monumental opus of prophecies about the
fate of the world published in 1555, the following verse:
Le Lyon jeune le uieux surmontera,
En champ belliqueparsingulierduelle,
Danscage d'or lesyeux lui creoera,
Deuxclasses une puis mourirmortcruelle,
This means, roughly: The young lion will overcome the old on the
tournament ground in single combat. Through the cage of gold
(the King was known to wear a gold helmet) his eyes will be
pierced. Two wounds become one, and then a cruel death.
This prophecy, although not mentioning the King by name,
appeared in the same year that Gauricus made his prediction. King
Henri was instantly recognisable not only by his gold jousting
helmet, but by the golden lion which formed its crest. This second
astrological warning was also taken with complete seriousness and
preparations were begun for the next monarch, albeit tactfully and
without any overt fuss. Astrologers and seers, by the grace of God
or the Devil (it was not certain which) were privy to the secrets of
Fate, and could foresee what had been written.
Needless to say, King Henri died, in the summer of his forty-
second year, on the tournament ground, during the celebrations
honouring his daughter's marriage to the King of Spain. His
opponent's lance accidentally splintered during combat, and the
King had accidentally forgotten to fasten the visor of his helmet. The
splinters passed through the helmet's visor, pierced both eyes,
and entered his brain. He died a particularly cruel and painful
Fate andTransiormation
145
death, after a prolonged agony of ten days. Everyone mourned,
and praised the accuracy of Gauricus and Nostradamus, and
prepared for the new reign. It is difficult for us now to understand
the passive acceptance of prediction and fate that permeated the
astrology of the sixteenth century. But it is equally difficult for the
modern astrologer, anxious to demonstrate to his client that the
interpretation of the natal horoscope is about 'potential', to justify
the uncanny accuracy of these and other similar Renaissance
predictions. It is very necessary for us in the twentieth century to
look at the horoscope psychologically, for we live in a psychologi-
cal age and our insights into ourselves may well be the only hope of
salvation; yet it would seem that it was indeed possible, a mere
four hundred years ago, to predict with absolute accuracy the
length of a man's life and the manner of his death.
Below is reproduced King Henri's horoscope as it was cast by
Cauricus."" Following this is a computer-calculated version of the
same horoscope, based on the birth data given by Gauricus. It will
be immediately apparent, if the two are compared, that the astrol-
ogers of the sixteenth century were by no means stupid in their
calculations, however impoverished they were by the lack of
scientific instruments. Although the ascendant and the following
house cusps seem rather strangely distorted in Gauricus' version,
the positions of the planets themselves are accurate to within a
degree or two. I am not sure which house system Gauricus used,
since he gives his own tables in the Opera Omnia; probably it was
Porphyry, who was popular at the time. Or perhaps it was his
own. The moon is the only badly misplaced planet in the chart,
being four degrees out, while the Caput Draconis or ascending
node is exact. Gauricus, of course, did not know about Uranus,
Neptune and Pluto. He based his predictions on the seven known
heavenly bodies, the nodes, and the Pars Fortuna (Arabic parts
were then in vogue), which happens in Gauricus' version of the
horoscope to be in exact conjunction with the ascending node. His
sources are Ptolemy, Arabic literature on the fixed stars and parts,
and the Mathesis of Julius Firmicus Maternus.
I shall quote Firmicus because my Latin is not good enough to
quote Gauricus; and moreover, they say the same thing. Firmicus'
work appeared first in Venice in a printed edition in 1497, during
Gauricus' youth. He spends several pages arguing against the
detractors of astrology and the refutors of fate:
Who is it who brings death to one unborn, to another on the first
day of life, to the child a little while after, to the youth, to the old
man? Let something be discovered which may teach us, which
may show us, struggling as we are, the path of truth. Surely it is
146
The Astrology of Fate
A
DIAGRAM 10. Birth horoscope of King Henri II of France
b. 31 March 1519 (0 .5.)
10.28 a.m.
Sl Germain-en-Laye
o
(planetary placements according to Luc Gauricus, Opera Omnia)
Fate and the necessity of human death which distributes at its
own discretion a time of living to all living things born on the
Earth, denies a longer span to some, allows it to others. It makes
no sense for one to admit the necessity of Fate and afterwards to
deny it.71
Firmicus, and Gauricus in his turn, believed the astrological prac-
titioner to be the mouthpiece of Fate, and he writes in the Mathesis a
considerable amount about the responsibilities entailed in such a
delicate role. He does not pussyfoot about the difficulties of the
twelfth house, in which, according to Gauricus' version of King
Henri's nativity, the sun, moon and Venus are placed. The twelfth
A
Fate and Transformation
1.44
)\.t 398
\ \ .
1.22.19.
;1
1447.:>/
1.44
DIAGRAM 11. Birth horoscope of King Henri II of France
(calculated by computer)
147
o
house in the Mathesis is called cacodaimon, the EvilSpirit. Firmicus
does not care for the sixth house either, in which Gauricus places
King Henri's Jupiter:
In this house we find the cause of physical infirmities and
sickness. This house is called Mala Fortuna [Bad Fortune]
because it is the house of Mars.rz
Nor does he appreciate the psychological potential of the sun in
square to Saturn, a close aspect in His Most Christian Majesty's
horoscope:
The native will die a violent death if Saturn is in opposition or
square aspect to the sun. Violent death is also indicated ifSaturn
and Mars are in square aspect to the moon.73
Since King Henri has the moon as well as the sun in square to
148
TheAstrologyof Fate
Saturn in Gauricus' map, the poor King does not appear to have
too many options open to him. On forecasting the length of life,
Firmicus states:
When you look carefully at the Giver of Life, that is, the ruler of
the chart [for Firmicus, this is not the ascendant ruler, but rather
the ruler of the sign which the moon enters after she has left her
natal sign] and you see in what house it is located ... and you
also consider the ruler of the sign in which the Giver of Life is
situated . . . you will easily be able to delineate the whole
character of this life.74
King Henri's ruler, whichever way it is looked at, is Venus,
according to Gauricus' ascendant; and she is in the sign of her
detriment in the horrible cacodaimon, the twelfth house. Venus in
turn is squared by Saturn and opposed by Jupiter in the house of
what Firmicus calls Bad Fortune. If I had lived in the sixteenth
century, I would not have bet any money on King Henri either.
The rather gloomy approach which Firmicus and his later fol-
lowers adopt toward 'malefic' configurations is one which offers
no flexibility of any kind to fate. This is perhaps because the idea
which we now possess of 'inner' reflecting 'outer' was not a part of
the sixteenth century's consciousness, save for rare souls like
Marsilio Ficino. I would imagine that Gauricus, had King Henri
asked him for further advice, would have told the monarch to look
to the state of his soul, since not much could be done for the state of
his body. Although the fate which Gauricus and Nostradamus
foresaw for the King is not really Moira in the sense of retribution
for ancestral sins or transgression of natural boundaries, it is Moira
in her role as daimon of doom and death, and it is nevertheless a fate
which lies in the physical substance of the world and the individ-
ual. Something was fated to be enacted during the summer of the
King's forty-second year; it would never have occurred to Gauricus
that this fate might enact itself on any level other than death in
single combat through a head wound. Perhaps it couldnot enact
itself on any other level because there was, for that King at that
time in history, no other level.
Following now is a list of the transiting planets on the day that
King Henri's joust reached its unfortunate climax. I have listed
only the seven planets that Gauricus would have considered, in
order to get a fuller sense of what he interpreted with such grim
finality. After this list is a complete sequence of all ten heavenly
bodies in their positions on the day of the King's actual death ten
days after the accident (if such a word is appropriate). These have
been calculated by computer.
The following unpleasant cosmic arrangements may now be
Fate and Transformation
DIAGRAM 12. Transits for the date of King Henri's joust
30 June 1559
(planetary placements at noon GMT)
0
17 ~ 09
)
17 ~
08
61 4"()
32
~
17~ 39~
9 17 rf)
20
cJ'
5 l'
09
4-
18 H
03 ~
7
2 II
29
DIAGRAM 13. Transits for the date of King Henri 's death
10 July 1559
(planetary placements at noon GMT)
0
26 ~ 42
)
9
:::0= 05
~
13 ...§' 03
9 29 rf)
19
d's
/I
46
2r
17 H 49.
7
3 II
30
*
12 IT\i'
15
<f
21l t)
(J()
~
9 it
00
149
considered: Transiting Saturn was precisely conjuncting the Pars
Fortuna and the ascending node of the moon. The Caput Draconis
or 'north' node of the moon received much more publicity in
medieval and Renaissance astrology than it does now; the astrol-
ogers of the time acquired their view of the moon's nodes from the
Arabs and the Indians, who feared the Caput greatly. It was
believed to be a fated and terribly dangerous point in the horo-
scope . In India the Caput or Head of the Dragon iscalled Rahu, the
Terrible Demon or Gorgon, who swallows the sun. This is related
to the fact that the conjunction of sun, moon and ascending node
results in a total solar eclipse. Ketu, the descending or 'south'
node, called Cauda Draconis (Tail of the Dragon), is likewise a
150
The Astrology of Fate
dangerous point, and a demon in Indian myth. Saturn conjuncting
the Pars Fortuna by transit in the first house, wherein 'is found the
life and vital spirit of men', is bad enough; Saturn conjuncting the
Caput is disastrous.
I believe this is what Gauricus would have seen, although I
would not see it that way myself. King Henri's grand cardinal
cross, consisting of Jupiter in square to Saturn in square to sun-
moon-Venus (the moon is not actually involved, but Gauricus
thought it was) in square to Mars (which is not technically opposite
Saturn, but through the idea of 'translation of light' current at the
time is considered to complete the grand cross), is, to begin with, a
nasty enough sight for a sixteenth-eentury astrologer grounded in
Firmicus. It was being triggered, during the period between the
fatal joust and the King's death, by the transiting sun and Mercury.
Notwithstanding his sad death, King Henri's life was an exceed-
ingly unhappy one. His youth was spent in a Spanish dungeon as
hostage to the Emperor Charles V, his father disliked him intensely
and avoided him as much as possible, his mother died when he
was very young, he was married against his will to a woman he
found physically repulsive, and he was perpetually, although not
surprisingly, depressed. The best that can be said is that he played
a good game of tennis. To Gauricus, the sun and the chart ruler in
Aries afflicted by the baleful Saturn and Mars meant injury to the
head, since Aries is traditionally the ruler of that part of the body.
There are two possible explanations for the blindness prophesied
by Nostradamus. One is the location of King Henri's reputed
ascendant near the stars of the Pleiades, considered by the Arabs to
endanger sight. The other is the location of the King's Mars on a
nebula called the Eyes of the Crab, located in the sign of Cancer,
also believed to endanger sight. In addition to the threatening
transits of Saturn, sun and Mercury, the transiting sun also
reached the IC calculated by Gauricus, the point in the horoscope
which traditionally represents the 'end oflife'. And there had been
an eclipse earlier in the year, around the time of the King's
birthday, which fell on the sun-moon-Venus conjunction in the
cacodaimon, the terrible twelfth house. Putting aU this together, we
can get some sense of why the two astrologers thought the King's
death to be inevitable.
Now, I have presented this summary of a day in the life of King
Henri for several reasons. Firstly, I feel it is an excellent example of
the mainstream of astrology's attitude towards fate, the attitude
which now provokes such animosity or splitting among modern
practitioners. But more importantly, Iwish to draw attention to the
unfortunate fact that both Gauricus and Nostradamus were right
about the King. However, although I have not to my recollection
Fate and Transformation
151
ever seen a horoscope identical to that of King Henri, I have seen
frequently enough the configurations which Firmicus and Gauri-
cus would have considered baleful. They do not translate them-
selves so literally now. While the sun in square to Saturn might
have meant violent death in Firmicus' time, and even in Gauricus',
it does not appear to manifest in such a manner today. Sometimes
it does, and sometimes it does not. This curious but highly
significant shift is, I feel, a reflection ofsome profound change, not
only in the attitudes of astrology from the more literally predictive
to the more psychological, but also in the manner in which fate
enacts itself. Ihave observed grand cardinal crosses involving sun,
Mars, and Saturn where one comer lay in the twelfth house, and I
have watched 'malefic' transits over such points, including the
moon's nodes. At these times my clients did not die, either of
wounds to the head or anything else. They certainly went through
some rather painful and difficult experiences, including illness,
accidents, depressions, marriage break-ups and so on; and one
attempted suicide. But the response to planetary pressure such as
Gauricus might have understood as fatalseems to vary a good deal
more today than it did in the sixteenth century. A good example is
the chart of Ruth, who has a grand cross involving the sixth and
twelfth houses, as well as the meridian. What happened to her,
was, after a fashion, a kind of death; but it was an inner one, and
yielded some very creative results. Sun-Saturn squares and Mars-
Saturn squares are certainly prone to engage in battle when they
are triggered, and often 'in an enclosed space' in a symbolic sense.
But the battles may be inner ones, and so too may the deaths.
I suspect that we are here confronted with that mystery which
esoteric tradition calls the planes of consciousness, or what might
also be referred to as levels of expression for psychic energy. lung
writes about the 'canalisation of libido' in Volume Vof the Collected
Works, and suggests that psychic energy tends to transform from
instinctual compulsion to meaningful inner experience through
the mediation of the symbol. In other words, psychic energy
'introverts' if the image which corresponds to the outer compul-
sion emerges within the individual and if he is able to contain that
compulsion through the mediating power of the image. In the end,
the compulsion may still demand actualisation. On the other
hand, it may not. This process is often an extremely fraught one. It
is also the path by which Buddhism teaches that a man may loosen
his attachment to the Thousand Things. To give a very crude and
simple but common enough example: A man is experiencing the
transit of Neptune over his natal Venus. His dreams herald the
transit by manifesting erotic imagery, and mysterious unknown
women who are trying to seduce him or guide him somewhere.
152
TheAstrologyof Fate
One day while travelling home from the office to his wife and
family, he sees on a street comer a miraculously beautiful sixteen-
year-old girl. (The film 10 portrays this dilemma most amusingly.)
Does our hero pursue the anima, or does he attempt the painful,
frustrating and anger-provoking path of trying to internalise her?
Or does he attempt both? That she appears at this time in his lifeis
an act of fate. His response has ultimately nothing to do with
conventional morality, because different responses may be appro-
priate for different people. But it deals in part with the issue of
transmuting instinct into inner image, which may become a new
and creative aspect of the individual himself. Sometimes this can
only occur if the actual concrete woman is met and related to. But
there are a great many choices inherent in this kind of situation,
and perhaps there are more of them today than there were five
hundred years ago, because we have allowed into our vocabulary
and into our consciousness the reality of the 'inner image'.
Obviously there is no legitimate answer to the question of what our
hero must do; it depends upon the man, his wife, and the sixteen
year old. Some people are horribly predictable. But the predictabi-
lity is not so predictable as it once was.
The profound passage that we have made from King Henri's
time to our own is not merely a passage of technology and greater
knowledge of the physical universe. We have also introjected
many of the gods and daimones which people the outer world of the
primitive and which still, during the Renaissance, resided in
'outer' things. This process has impoverished our religious rituals,
but it has also enriched our inner lives, and it has given us more
choices to counterbalance Moira. Ficino believed that one could
transform at least certain aspects of fate through magic, but Ficino
was in a very small minority in his time. His consciousness was
much closer to ours. In general, the sixteenth century did not know
the word 'inner', or the concept of 'individuality', let alone that of
'individuation' or the reality of 'psyche'. A man was, in the most
profound sense, his persona; he embodied his position in society,
be it king, duke, priest, artisan or peasant. His inner being, such as
it was, consisted only of what he had been taught to feel and think
and believe. The great writers and artists of the time shine like suns
in the darkness of this collective unconsciousness, although such a
writer, writing the same books now, would have some difficulty
finding a publisher because he would be quite 'ordinary'. Any-
thing aberrant within the individual was usually believed to be the
work of the Devil, and madness was a possession by evil spirits.
King Henri was probably not aware that he had a psyche, or an
unconscious, personal or collective. Saturn in square to the sun did
not suggest to Gauricus, as it does to me, that the King suffered
Fate and Transformation
153
deep insecurity and a sense of profound failure, both as a king and
as a man, that he feared the judgment of society upon him, that he
had been emotionally crippled by the utter ruthlessness with
which his glamorous and much-beloved father, King Francois I,
had treated him, and that he had a very violent and destructive
streak to his nature which, denied any external expression save
conventional battles and jousts, ultimately turned inwards upon
itself. To Gauricus, there was only one way the chart could
manifest itself: outwardly, through an unfortunate life and a
violent end. For the King, there was only one level through which
the transits activating his chart could manifest: through his
physical body, in an actual duel with an actual opponent, because
concrete reality was all that he possessed. King Henri was fated in
this literal way because he himself was literal. He had never read
Fieino, and had no patience with poetry or with introspection. He
never questioned either his feelings or his motives, but allowed
himself always to be led by others, and rarely proclaimed any
initiatory action of his own. There were no Jungian analysts to help
him, or Transpersonal Psychology workshops, or meditation
groups, or EST,or Assertiveness Training. Although the hermetic
movement fostered by Fieinoknew of these things by other names,
King Henri was a man of his time and not one of their brotherhood.
There was only one kind of death which he could meet.
It would seem that although fate may not alter in its intrinsic
pattern or in its timing, it may alter in terms of its clothing, its level
of expression. This is suggested by the story of King Henri, and by
the stories of my analysands.Whether we cultivate the Eastern
viewpoint of non-attachment in order to attain freedom from the
Wheel, or the psychological viewpoint of withdrawing projections
in order to experience ourselves as individuals with some degree of
choice in life, we are ultimately the inheritors of Ficino and the
alchemists, who believed that the transformation of one's own
substance was the only possible answer to fate. Paradoxically, this
entails an embrace of one's fate. The twentieth-century individual
with aspects like those of King Henri in his natal horoscope, who
has done a little humble tampering with Nature in terms of insight
into himself, is, in my experience, both more and less predictable
than the individual who, like King Henri, identifies completely
with his persona and can find reality only in the external defi-
nitions of his role in society. He is less predictable because more
levels are open to him; he is more predictable in that, in my
experience, he becomes more like his birth chart, and in particular,
more like his sun sign. I should emphasise that this kind of inner
work does not seem to alter the individual's innate pattern. If
anything, it brings it into sharper relief. We are what we are, and
154
The Astrology of Fate
fortunately or unfortunately cannot write an angry letter to The
Times requesting a new horoscope. Nor does the timing of transits
and progressions change. The rate of growth of the organism is
inherent in the organism, for this is Moira, and I have not found
that 'tampering' through introversion and relationship with the
unconscious either accelerates or slows down that rate of growth.
Rather, it may make it more meaningful. I am not very impressed
by that school of astrology which believes one can 'transcend' the
horoscopethrough psychological or spiritual techniques, or 'work
through' one's karma with American-style rapidity by a little
Sanskrit chanting and a quick name change and a turban. But
perhaps one can experience the horoscope 'inside' as well as
'outside', and that seems to make a difference in terms of the
subjective quality of life. As I have tried to show through the
example of Ruth and her violent man, there may be some wisdom
in glimpsing the inner psychic image which mirrors the outer
event. This inner image may sometimes change, or 'feels' different
as the ego changes its attitude toward the image. It is rather like a
dance: both partners gradually learn to move more gracefully
together, not stepping on each other's feet quite so often,
remaining separate yet somehow a unity, and slowly - over a
lifetime - becoming comfortable enough to actually listen with
pleasure to the music.
That fate which in King Henri manifested as the violent concreti-
sation of a violent natal configuration might, in the modem
individual, find a somewhat altered, or at least a more meaningful,
expression. The transits which so alarmed Gauricus and Nostrada-
mus - such as Saturn over the ascending node, or the sun over the
grand cross - might offer an opportunity for confronting some-
thing violent within oneself, as well as - or, perhaps, instead of-
confronting something violent in the outer world in the form of an
opponent's lance. And if the outer world does produce its lance,
one may still find the experience inwardly rewarding, even the
process of death. If I allow my imagination free play, I would
envision those three robed female forms who are really one,
offering several alternatives, provided that what they have written
is accepted in essence. I once worked with a man who is a very
gifted writer, who periodically expressed his anxiety and ambi-
valence towards his analysis and toward me by visiting, one after
another, an entire stable of psychics, palm-readers and clair-
voyants to find out 'what was going to happen' to him. This
inevitably occurred when the pressure and heat of the analytic
confrontation, and the unknown depths of the unconscious,
pushed him into his intense fear and mistrust of life. He has the
sun in Virgo, and such urgent need to know precisely the future
Fate and Transformation
155
course of physical events is a characteristic way in which the sign
copes with anxiety. On one occasion, because I was not amenable
to drawing up his horoscope on the spot and offering him an
instantaneous summary of his future, he attempted to 'punish' me
by visiting an Indian astrologer who would give on demand what
I, the bad mother, was refusing him: a guarantee of safety. He
returned in some perplexity, horoscope in hand. It seemed tha t the
Indian astrologer had mentioned two dates in the past which he
interpreted as the fathering of two children. The dates, myanalys-
and told me, were certainly accurate; but as he was unmarried
with no children that he was aware of, he was rather baffled,
because these dates coincided with the publication of two very
successful 'thrillers' which had set him going on his literary career.
I did not inspect the horoscope, because I felt at the time that the
issue of trust on which we were working needed to emerge out of
the relationship and not out of the horoscope. Therefore I do not
know what configurations provoked such an interpretation on the
part of the other astrologer. But I would guess that he had seen
some progression or transit involving the fifth house. This house,
however, does not stipulate on which level we create. How was
this astrologer to know, literal as he was, that the creative act for
my shy, introverted and partnerless analysand might take a differ-
ent form? That he had to produce children at these two junctures of
his life was, perhaps, his fate. But the ambiguity hinges upon what
kind of children these were going to be.
The strange and paradoxical relationship between the ego which
must maintain its sense of autonomy and the demands of Moira, is
not easy to define. Perhaps, ultimately, it is impossible to define.
Family inheritance such as we have seen in both Renee R., the
autistic child, and Ruth, the haunted woman, is certainly what I
would understand as Moira. In the first case, it seems as though
nothing can be done, although, in theory, many autistic children
might be helped by a more insightful therapeutic approach. In the
second case, something has been done, but precisely what is hard
to delineate in any literal way. Nothing can be done for Ruth
either, in so far as she is the person she is, and therefore has the
psychic bedfellow she has. But this bedfellow showed a certain
willingness to try other positions, as it were, than rape, provided
Ruth showed an equal willingness to experiment with him . In a
similar vein, the aspects and sign and house placements of Pluto in
the horoscope are givens, which cannot be altered. But the individ-
ual's understanding of the planet's requirements can deepen, and
its expression can therefore be more meaningful and less ter-
rifying. It would seem that consciousness, in the sense that lung
means it. is the fulcrum upon which the relationship between fate
156
The Astrology of Fate
and freedom balances, for this quality of consciousness permits
fate to unfold in a richer and more complex tapestry which isat the
same time both more supportive of the ego and, paradoxically,
more honouring of the unconscious. Our dream images and the
children of the imagination may enact their combats and promote
the death of the old king within the psyche, and these processes
may necessitate suffering and sacrifice, sometimes in the external
world as well as in the inner. But perhaps they can occur with a
sense of meaning and a paradoxical willingness - the ability to do
gladly that which I must do. I would not be so flagrantly obtuse as
to suggest that we in the twentieth century are no longer fated. But
I view with interest the change from Gauricus' astonishing level of
concrete predictive accuracy - even with an inaccurate horoscope-
to the more muddled and uncertain predictive accuracy of the
present-day astrologer. This gives me the feeling that we stand on
the threshold of opening up possibilities of understanding Moira
as an inner archetypal figure, as well as the great law of nature
which circumscribes physical life.
6
75
The Creation of the World
. . . The Earth, the Sky, and the Sea were once mingled together in
the same form, until a compelling music sounded from nowhere
and they separated, yet remained one universe still. This mys-
terious music announced the birth of the soul of Eurynome: for
that was the original name of the Great Triple Goddess, whose
symbol is the Moon. She was the universal Goddess and she was
alone . Being alone, she presently felt lonely, standing between
blank earth, empty water, and the accurately circling constell-
ations of Heaven. She rubbed her cold hands together, and when
she opened them again, out slid the serpent Ophion, whom from
curiosity she admitted to love with her. From the fearful convul-
sions of this act of love rivers sprang, mountains rose, lakes
swelled; it caused all manner ofcreeping things and fish and beasts
to be born and populate the earth . Immediately ashamed of what
she had done, Eurynome killed the serpent and sent his ghost
underground; but as an act of justice she banished a mulberry-
faced shadow of herself to live underground with the ghost. She
renamed the serpent 'Death', and her shadow she named
'Hekate'. From the scattered teeth of the dead serpent sprang up
the Sown race of men, who were shepherds, cowherds and
horseherds, but neither tilled the soil nor engaged in warfare.
Their food was milk, honey, nuts, and fruit, and they knew
nothing of metallurgy. So ended the first Age, that had been the
Age of Stone.
Eurynome continued to live in Earth, Sky and Sea. Her Earth-
self was Rhea, with the breath ofgorse-flower and amber-coloured
eyes. As Rhea one day she went to visit Crete . . . In Crete, out of
sun and vapour, feeling lonely again, Rhea contrived a man-god
named Cronus to be her lover. To satisfy her maternal craving, she
then every year bore herself a Sun-Child in the Dictean Cave; but
Cronus was jealous of the Sun-Children and killed them, one after
the other. Rhea concealed her displeasure. She said smilingly to
Cronus one day: 'Give me, dearone, the thumb and fingers ofyour
158
TheAstrologyof Fate
left hand. A single hand is enough for such a lazy god as you are. I
will make five little gods out of them to obey your instructions
while you recline here with me on the flowery bank. They will
guard your feet and legs from unnecessary fatigue .' He accord-
ingly gave her his left thumb and fingers, and out of them she
made five little gods called the Dactyls, or Finger Gods, and
crowned them with myrtle crowns. They caused him a deal of
amusement by their sport and dancing. But Rhea secretly
instructed the Dactyls to hide from Cronus the next Sun-Child that
she bore . They obeyed her and deceived Cronus, putting an
axe-shaped thunder-stone in a sack and pretending that it was
Rhea's child which, as usual, they were throwing into the sea for
him. This gave rise to the proverb, that the right hand should
always be aware of what the left hand is doing. Rhea could not
herself suckle the child, whom she named Zagreus, without
rousing the suspicions of Cronus; and therefore the Dactyls
brought a fat sow to be his foster-mother - a circumstance of which
Zagreus afterwards did not like to be reminded. Later, because
they found it inconvenient to drown his infant voice with loud
drumming and piping whenever he cried, they weaned him from
the sow and took him away from Mount Dicte. They consigned
him to the care of certain shepherds who lived far to the west, on
Mount Ida, where his fare was sheep's cheese and honey. So the
second Age, that had been the Golden Age, drew to a close.
Rhea hastened on the new Age by fostering agriculture, and by
teaching her servant, Prometheus the Cretan, how to make fire
artificially with the fylfot fire-wheel. She laughed long to herself
when Zagreus castrated and killed his father Cronus with a golden
sickle that Prometheus had forged, and still longer when he tried
to disguise himself as a starved and bedraggled cuckoo and
pleaded to be nursed back to life in her bosom. She pretended to be
deceived, and when he resumed his true shape she allowed him to
enjoy her. 'Yes, indeed, my little god,' she said, 'you may be my
loving servant if you wish .'
But Zagreus was insolent and answered: 'No, Rhea, I will be
your master and instruct you what to do. I am more cunning than
you, for I deceived you with my cuckoo disguise. And I am also
more reasonable than you. Byan act of reason I have just invented
Time. Now that Time has begun, with my Advent, we can have
dates and history and genealogy instead of timeless, wavering
myth. And recorded Time, with its chain of detailed cause and
consequence, will be the basis of Logic.'
Rhea was astonished and did not know whether to crush him to
atoms with one blow of her sandal or whether to lie back and
scream with mirth. In the end she did neither. She said no more
The Creation of the World
159
that this: '0 Zagreus, Zagreus, my little Sun-Child, what strange
notions you have sucked in from the dugs of your foster-mother,
the Sow of Dietel'
He answered: 'My name is Zeus, not Zagreus; and I am a
Thunder-Child, not a Sun-Child; and Iwas suckled by the She-goat
Amalthea of Ida, not by the Sow of Dicte.'
'That is a triple lie,' said Rhea, smiling.
'I know that,' he answered. 'But Iam bigand strong enough now
to tell triple lies, or even sevenfold lies, without fear of contra-
diction . If I am of a bilious temper, that is because the ignorant
shepherds of Ida fed me with too much honeycomb. You must
beware of my masterful ways, Mother, I warn you, for from now
onwards, I, not you, am the Sole Sovereign of All Things.'
Rhea sighed and answered happily: 'Dear Zagreus, or Zeus, or
whatever you care to be called, have you indeed guessed how
weary I am of the natural order and tidiness of this manifest uni-
verse, and of the thankless labour of supervising it? Rule it, Child,
rule it, by all means! Let me lieback and meditate at my ease. Yes, I
will be your wife and daughter and slave; and whatever strife or
disorder you bring into my beautiful universe by any act of reason,
as you callit, Iwillforgive you, because you are still very young and
cannot be expected to understand things as wellas Ido. Butpray be
careful of the Three Furies that have been born from the drops of
blood falling from your father's severed genitals; make much of
them or they will one day avenge him. Let us have recorded Time
and dates and genealogy and history, by all means; though I
foresee that they will cause you far more anxiety and pleasure than
they are worth. And by all means use Logic as a crutch for your
crippled intelligence and a justification of your absurd errors.
However, I must first make a condition; there shall be two islands,
one in the Western Sea and one in the Eastern, which I shall retain
for my ancient worship. There neither yourself nor any other deity
that you may divide yourself into shall have any jurisdiction, but
only myself and my serpent Death when Ichoose to send for him.
The western shall be the island ofinnocence, and the eastern that of
illumination; in neither will any record be kept of time, but every
day shall be as a thousand years, and contrariwise.'
Then at once she made the western island rise from the waters,
like a garden, at a day's sail from Spain; and she also cast a cloud
about the severed member of Cronus, and the Dactyls conveyed it
safely to the eastern island, which was already in existence, where
it became their companion, the jolly fish-headed god Priapus.
Then Zeus said: 'I accept your condition, Wife, ifyou agree that
your other self, Amphitrite, shall surrender the Sea to my shadow
brother Poseidon.'
160
The Astrology of Fate
Rhea answered: 'I agree, Husband, only reserving for my own
use the waters that extend for fivemiles about my two islands; you
may also rule in the Sky instead of Eurynome, with possession of
all the stars and planets and of the Sun itself; but I reserve the
Moon for my own.'
So they clasped hands on the bargain, and to show his power
Zeus dealt her a resounding box on the ear, and danced in menace
an armed jig, clashing his thunderstone axe against his golden
shield so that the thunder rolled horribly across the vault of
Heaven. Rhea smiled. She had not bargained away her control of
three most important things, which Zeus never afterward suc-
ceeded in wresting from her:wind, death and destiny. This is why
she smiled.
PART TWO
Daimon
7
Fate and Myth
myth, mith, n. afigment; acommonly held beliefthatis untrue,
or without foundation .
Chambers Twentieth Century Dictionary
There was once a KingofThebes called Laios.This Laioshad, in his
early manhood, caused mortal offence to a friend and host called
Pelops. While staying at his friend's palace, he carried off the
man's son, Chrysippos, and forced the boy with a sexual assault.
Out of shame Chrysippos killed himself; and Pelops, outraged,
cursed Laios King of Thebes, that he might never himself beget a
son, or, if he did, then by that son he should be slain.
In time Laioschose as his wife lokaste, a princess of the house of
Echion. Three times the Delphic oracle warned him that he must
die without issue, if he were to avert catastrophe to himself and to
Thebes:
Kingof theglorious chariots
Of Thebes, do not defythegods;beget no son.
If everyour seed sees the light, your sonshall take
Your life, and your whole house shall drown in kindred blood.76
But Laios was not inclined to heed the warning, and while drunk
one night forcibly consummated his marriage. The fruit of the
union, a male child, was sent by the guilty father to be exposed on a
hillside; thus compounding Pelops' curse with the wrath of Hera,
protectress of children, and Apollo, protector of young boys, from
whom the threatening oracle had come.
The child was exposed in winter, nailed to the earth with an iron
spike through his feet. For this he was later called Oidipus, which
means 'swell-foot'. ATheban herdsman took pity on the child and
spared his life, handing him over to another herdsman from
neighbouring Corinth; who in turn presented the baby Oidipus to
the childless King and Queen of Corinth, to rear as their own.
164
The Astrology of Fate
The boy grew to sturdy manhood, with a strong body , fiery red
hair, and an imperious temper. He believed himself to be the true
son of King Polybus and Queen Periboia of Corinth. But one night
he was insulted by a drunken guest at a banquet, who reproached
him for his lack of resemblance to his parents and accused him of
being a foster-child. Oidipus secretly set forth to inquire at the
Delphic oracle for the answer to the question of his parentage; but
the god did not answer the question, threatening him instead with
the awful doom of becoming his mother's husband and his father's
murderer. He did not dare return to Corinth, but instead took
another route, travelling north.
Laios, King of Thebes, was meanwhile in great despair, for
Hera's wrath at the King had caused her to send against Thebes a
monster out of Ethiopia, called the Sphinx. This creature was easily
recognised by her woman's head, lion's body, serpent's tail and
eagle's wings. The wise prophet Teiresias warned Laios to sacrifice
at Hera's altar to beg forgiveness. But the King did not heed the
seer, and set out instead to consult the Delphic oracle once again,
taking the route south.
The son's path crossed that of the father in a narrow pass where
it was impossible to make room . 'Traveller, give way to the King!'
cried Laios' herald to the stranger. Oidipus' rage boiled over; he
refused to step out of the King's path. One of Laios' horses trod on
his foot, and the old King struck him on the head with the forked
goad he used to drive his team. In fury, ignorant of whom he was
striking, Oidipus smote his father dead with his staff, and the
herald as well. Then, consumed with murderous anger, he bit the
corpse of his victim, and spat out the blood.
In time Oidipus came to Thebes. After the death of Laios was
discovered, the Queen's brother Kreon ruled there. The Sphinx
continued to terrorise the city. She had settled on Mount Phicium,
close to the gates, and asked every Theban wayfarer a riddle taught
her by the Three Muses:
On twofeet, yet onfour, there treads theearth,
Yea, andon three, a creature ofonename.
Aloneit changes shape ofall thatwalk
On groundor fly in airor swim thesea.
But when it goes supported onfour feet,
Then is thespeed thefeeblest in its limbs. T7
When the unfortunate wayfarer could not answer the riddle, the
Sphinx strangled him and threw his corpse off Mount Phicium.
Among the dead was Kreon's own son. Thereupon Kreon made a
proclamation, that Iokaste and the kingdom should be his who
overcame the Sphinx.
Fate andMyth
165
When the Sphinx confronted Oidipus with the riddle, he
replied:
Of Man thou tellest. When hegoes on mould
Four-footed first hecreeps, a babe new-born;
In age a staff, thirdfoot, must him uphold,
All heavy-necked, withcurved eldforlorn. 78
When the Sphinx heard this, she cast herself down from her
mountaintop, and Oidipus married Iokaste and became King of
Thebes.
Thus Oidipus became a sage, and also the most foolish of all the
kings in the world. He received as the prize of his victory his own
mother, and begat on her four children. But after a time a heavy
plague fell upon Thebes, and it became apparent that some god
was angry. When the Delphic oracle was consulted, Apollo
replied: 'Expel the murderer of Laios.' Oidipus, in his blindness,
pronounced a curse on Laios' murderer, and sentenced him to
exile. The seer Teiresias admonished the King that the accursed
thing in Thebes which he sought was in fact himself. In due
course the herdsmen were found , who revealed their story . When
Oidipus at last perceived that the oracle had truly foretold his fate,
and that he had become the husband of his mother, the slayer of
his father and the brother of his children, he blinded himself with
a golden pin . Iokaste in her tum hanged herself at once when her
shame was revealed.
The blind Oidipus vanished from the eyes of Thebes. He
wandered for many years,
led by Antigone, the elder and
stronger of his daughter-sisters, and his dreams were haunted by
the pursuing Erinyes. His sons murdered each other, and the
house of Laios was drowned in kindred blood as the oracle had
prophesied. When he heard of the carnage that was left of his
family, he cried:
o Destiny! You created me, beyond all men,
For life-long wretchedness and pain. Before I came
Forth from my mother's womb Apollo prophesied
To Laios thathis unborn sonshould murder him . . .
I am not such a lost fool as to perpetrate
That outrage on my eyes and on myown sons' lives
Without being forced to it by divine malevolence.
Sobeit; whatshould such a wretch as I do now?79
Antigone, after long and desperate wandering, led her father on
the road to Kolonos, Poseidon's rocky hill and one of the
entrances to the underworld. There the Erinyes, the goddesses
who avenge the Mother, had their inviolable grove. In this place
166
TheAstrologyof Fate
Oidipus was forgiven by the gods, and the earth opened to receive
him at last.
This is, of course, a figment of Greek imagination, an untrue story
without foundation. No archaeologist has ever found the bones of
Oidipus. Yet we have already seen how mythic themes may be
used to deepen our understanding of astrological symbols such as
Pluto, and to help us to travel imaginative roads into experiences of
inner life which are inaccessible to a more rational or empiric
approach. The myth of Oidipus has come to be better known than
almost any other, because it provided the foundation upon which
Sigmund Freud built his great edifice of psychoanalytic theory.
Jung, following after Freud into the hidden strata of man's archaic
unconscious world, found that these 'untrue stories' are spon-
taneous and universal images of the typical development patterns
of human life. Myths in other words, are a creative, imaginative
self-portrait of the psyche describing its own evolution - its own
fate. As Joseph Campbell puts it:
It would not be too much to say that myth is the secret opening
through which the inexhaustible energies of the cosmos pour
into human cultural manifestation. Religions, philosophies,
arts, the social forms of primitive and historic man, prime
discoveries in science and technology, the very dreams that
blister sleep, boil up from the basic, magic ring of myth.80
The Greek word mythos contains two nuances of meaning. In
one sense, mythos is a story. In another, more profound sense, it
implies a scheme or plan. It is this latter shading of the word which
is most relevant both to psychology and astrology, because the
universality of basic mythic motifs reveals a groundplan or pur-
poseful pattern of development inherent in the human psyche as
well as in the human body. The life of individuals and nations is
therefore not random, nor shaped exclusively by environmental
factors; it has intent, or teleology. lung called the patterning factors
in the psyche the archetypes, and we have seen how these
archetypal 'designs' touch very closely on one of the possible
meanings of fate. The birth horoscope too is a story, as well as a
scheme or plan, and the two - horoscope and myth - form a dyad.
Myth maps the universal human patterns, while the birth chart
maps the individual one . These two also intersect, because the
signs and planets of the zodiac are crowded round with mythic
images and themes, and the development of life represented by
the cycle of Aries through Pisces tells a mythic tale. This is a tale of
fate, the pattern of growth from seed to mature plant to seed again,
which has been written before the concrete story begins. But it is a
Fate and Myth
167
different kind of fate from Moira, whom we have been exploring
in the preceding pages. I am still in no position to know whether
Chrysippos the Neoplatonist was right when he described dual
fate as energy and substance. But I am prepared to give him the
benefit of the doubt, and suggest that Moira represents the 'sub-
stance' aspect of fate (Madame Blavatsky, after all, equated
karma with substance), while the destiny inherent in mythic
themes is the 'energy' aspect. Perhaps the two are not really
separate, but simply 'feel' different because they are experienced
at different levels.
Socrates and Plato also distinguished between the goddess
Necessity and her children, the Moirai, and another kind of
deterministic force in human affairs. This latter they called the
daimon (also spelled daemon).
So, at last, we reach the notion of the individual ker, daemon,
and moira. The keris an eidolon [imageJ, or winged sprite, which
wears a sinister aspect - it is an object of fear. If it is angry and
seeks vengeance, it is an Erinyes. Considered as allotted to the
individual at his birth, it is his moira - the span or limit of his
vital force, the negative and repressive aspect of his fate ...
.The daemon (genius) of a person, on the other hand, retains the
element of beneficent power, of functional mana. When Hera-
clitus, for example, says that a man's character is his daemon,
he means that it is the force which shapes his life from within,
and makes or mars his fortunes, not a 'destiny' allotted him
from without.P'
There is a considerable although subtle difference between these
two ways of viewing fate. This is reflected in our distinction, in
English, between the word 'fate' and the word 'destiny'. The
root of 'destiny' in Latin means 'to stand apart', thereby imply-
ing that, although destiny is fate in one sense, it is more con-
cerned with the individual's development, that which makes
him
unique, that which makes him 'stand apart' from his
fellows. Jung uses the word fate in both senses, sometimes more
in one, sometimes more in the other. But the daimon, despite its
more creative or 'beneficent' connotations, is no less determinis-
tic than the boundaries of Moira. It is still 'that which I must do'.
I am given the curious feeling that this doubleness of fate encom-
pases something with both a feminine and a masculine face, or,
put another way, with a dark and a light face. Moira is unques-
tionably female. Her kingdom is that of instinct, inheritance and
mortality. The daimon, when we meet it in the work of philoso-
phers such as Plato, has a more active, ambitious quality. It tries
to go somewhere; it contains the sense of a goal. Kerenyi also
168
The Astrology ofFate
considers the meaning of the daimon in his work on ZeusandHera:
A 'dispenser' is the meaning of daimon, but not a human one. In
the plural, in the language of Homer, daimones is completely
equivalent to theoi, 'gods'. Daimon in the singularalso is personal
in sense. It appears in a personal occurrence, in a personal fate,
we might say, although we must not understand 'fate' here as
being existent on its own. The 'dispenser' occurred only in a
personal case; it was a personal dispensation each time it
happened. 82
This forms a stark contrast to the collective impersonality of Moira
- and also the collective impersonality of the astrological Pluto.
When I attempt to grasp the essence of this mysterious daimon, I
am left with a sense of something that drives the individual from
within to fulfil a unique pattern. It is purposeful, teleological as
Jung would put it; it is trying to go somewhere, and the individual
in whom it is alive, or who, seen another way, is its embodiment,
therefore must himself go somewhere. The obvious expression of
such a driving force in the outer world is in the field of vocation.
Although the sense of a 'calling' is not experienced by everybody,
it is most unmistakable in those for whom it is a reality, and the
outer manifestation of that individual's 'character' in the form of a
sphere of creative endeavour is matched to the inner image of the
daimon which drives him. Socrates certainly had a daimon, and tried
to live in accord with its impetus. [ung might say that this is living
in harmony with, and in submission to, the Self. A conventionally
religious person might say it is living in accord with the willof God.
But the god is inside, and we are back to Novalis' equation of fate
and soul.
Other manifestations, less obvious in concrete terms than voca-
tion, seem also to reflect the impetus of the daimon. One certainly
encounters it in love. Plato wrote that Eros was a great daimon, and
the commands of love override so many other considerations that
one might well say love can be one of the most profound experi-
ences of fate that an individual can encounter. Love, too, 'goes
somewhere', for it changes the individual and can lead him into a
different phase of his development. Although Pluto figures
strongly in issues of compulsive attraction, the daimonic aspect of
love has a very different flavour. Plato puts it this way in the
Phaedrus:
And so it is with the followers of the other gods. Each man in his
life honours, and imitates as well as he can, that god to whose
choir he belonged, while he is uncorrupted in his first incar-
nation here; and in the fashion he has thus learned, he bears
Fate andMyth
169
himself to his beloved as well as to the rest. So, then, each
chooses from among the beautiful a love conforming to his kind;
and then, as if his chosen were his god, he sets him up and robes
him for worship . .. And this striving to discover the essence of
their proper god, by tracing him in themselves, is rewarded; for
they are forced to look on the god without flinching, and when
their memory holds him, his breath inspires them, and they
share his attributes and his life, as far as man can enter godhead.
And for these blessings they thank the loved one, loving him
even more deeply . .. He sees himself in his lover as if in a
mirror, not knowing whom he sees. And when they are
together, he too is released from pain, and when apart, he longs
as he himself is longed for; for reflected in his heart is love's
image, which is love's answer.83
Thus, one's love is one's destiny, because it reflects the god within
oneself. In fact, the entire pattern of a person's lifebears the stamp
of his daimon, and when looked at with hindsight, or from a
distance, the pattern is clear. It is only while we live it that it is so
difficult, perhaps impossible, to see, except in those rare moments
of lucidity which can occur during great crisis or suffering, when
the purposefulness of experience leaves the awesome sense of a
mover other than the ego and different from the blind instinctual
boundaries which we considered in the first part of the book.
Although I have, all along, been dipping into the bottomless
reservoir of myth to illustrate some of the manifestations of Moira
in the individual life, I would like now to approach the body of
myth in a different way. My intention is to move through the signs
of the zodiac, gathering, if a florid metaphor may be excused,
mythic flowers as an enrichment of the ordinary definitions gen-
erally given to each sign. The signs of the zodiac which are
emphasised in an individual horoscope are more than markers of
behaviour. They are the soul of the person, the gods 'to whose
choir he belonged', and they are therefore his fate in the sense that
Novalis describes. A zodiacal sign is far more profound than
simply a list of qualities of behaviour. It is a mythos, a scheme or
plan which is imaged in a story - a pattern of development, an
archetypal theme. Several different mythic characters inhabit the
domain of one astrological sign, and a drama is enacted, some-
times tragic, sometimes comic, but always teleological. I am con-
vinced that these stories, which form the bare bones of the
individual pattern of development, are something of what we
experience as fate - fate in the form of the daimon - because the
story is contained within us at birth, and merely awaits the telling
through being fleshed with the experiences and conscious choices
170
The Astrology of Fate
and perceptions of an individual life. Because, like Novalis, I feel
that the daimon and the soul are two names for the same principle,
the mythic stories which are suggested by the patterns within the
horoscope are both outer and inner, and permeate not only the
external life of the person but also the secret recesses of his dreams.
Thus images appear in sleep which are characteristic of the horo-
scope and of the signs which are strongly tenanted; and these
images are in turn the images of myth. They are different from, and
more complex than, the traditional zodiacal animals. But they are
part and parcel of the same daimon, We have already seen some of
this in the dream examples I have given in earlier chapters. In turn,
these mythic characters who embody the directives of the soul and
unravel the individual fate or 'destiny' are also the ordinary people
who inhabit one's outer life, whom one meets in parents, children,
partners, co-workers, friends, enemies and in the larger collective.
Of all the mutiplicity of mythic tales, stretching from the sublime
stories of the creation of the universe to the ridiculous and comic
escapades of the trickster and the fool, one mythic theme is most
relevant to the story of human development, and that is the tale
of the hero. The heroic quest is what Joseph Campbell calls the
'monomyth', for it is universal and ubiquitous, ancient and
modern, and is our most basic description of the processes of
human growth from the darkness of the uterine waters to the
darkness of the grave. The hero's journey is a map both of the
development of culture and of the individual's psychic voyage
through life. It applies to both men and women, to the primitive
tribesman and the sophisticated Western city dweller, to the adult
and to the child . It weaves its way through our dreams, our
fantasies, our hopes, our fears, our aspirations, our loves and our
ends. The stages of the hero's journey are found in every culture
and at every epoch. The surface details may vary, but the skeletal
structure remains the same.
The two - the hero and his ultimate god, the seeker and the
found - are thus understood as the outside and inside of a
single, self-mirrored mystery, which is identical with the
mystery of the manifest world. The great deed of the supreme
hero is to come to the knowledge of this unity in multiplicity
and then to make it known. 84
Each sign of the zodiac portrays a mythic journey. It contains a
hero, and also implies the nature of the hero's call to adventure. It
contains, too, the helper who provides the magic clue, and the
threshold of adventure; the battle with brother, dragon, sorcerer;
the dismemberment, crucifixion, abduction, night-sea journey
and whale's belly. The object of the quest is also contained: the
Fate andMyth
171
beloved, the sacred marriage, the jewel, the atonement with the
father, the elixir of life. And the hubris or flaw of the hero is also
contained, and the nature of his inevitable end, within that appar-
ently simple description of a single zodiacal sign.
Heroes (by which I mean both hero and heroine, for we are not
here dealing with a sexist issue, but rather with the development of
individual consciousness) differ a great deal. Herakles (or Her-
cules), for example, whose marvellous feat of the Twelve Labours
is one of the best-known of heroic sagas, is not particularly
intelligent. He has brawn rather than brains, possesses an
immense reservoir of physical strength and courage, and has a
tendency to club to death anything that opposes him. His stupid,
robust, vital, dynamic and unquenchable character is beautifully
portrayed in Robert Graves' novel of the quest for the Golden
Fleece, called Hercules, My Shipmate. He is a universally human
figure, but some of us are more like him than others; or, perhaps, it
would be more accurate to say that parts of us behave more like
him some of the time, and in certain situations. Odysseus, on the
other hand, is called 'the wily one'. Guile, rather than brute force,
carries him through; and his journey too is different, for he is the
wanderer seeking his home rather than the warrior seeking fresh
challenges. His path moves in a circle, rather than upward in an
ascent or in linear fashion through a series of tasks. Jason is
courageous but perfidious, and fails in the end through his
treachery to the woman who has loved and helped him. Orpheus
with his compassion and sweetness can wring tears from the very
stones with the beauty of his music, and can even soften the heart
of the stern lord of the underworld; but in the end he cannot
retrieve his lost wife from the halls of Hades because he doubts the
word of the Lord of the Great Place Below, and looks back.
Siegfried isa complex Teutonic hero, fearless yet corruptible, naive
and godlike yet doomed. Parsifal is the Holy Fool, who redeems
through the compassion born of his own blundering cruelty.
Prometheus is a humanitarian thief, Oedipus - as we have seen - a
noble and tragic pawn of fate whose uncontrollable anger and
defiance turn prophecy into reality.
The heroines of myth vary too. Medea is proud, jealous and
passionate, with occult powers; Phaedra too is jealous and pas-
sionate, but less honest, while Alkestis is meek and self-sacrificing,
and Andromeda is simply a beautiful helpless pawn awaiting
rescue. There are as many heroes and heroines, dragons and
sorceresses, kings and gods as there are facets of human nature
and variations on the single theme of human life. Different mythic
themes are relevant at different times of life, for the major bio-
logical turning points of birth, puberty, childbirth, menopause,
172
TheAstrology of Fate
old age and death are accompanied by equally profound psychic
changes which are reflected in the ever-changing panorama of
myth. A man may at one point in his life be caught in the drama of
Perseus confronting the terrible Gorgon as he attempts to leave his
mother at adolescence and move out into life; at another point he
may be caught in the ribald comedy of Zeus struggling with his
nagging, jealous wife; he may meet the Gorgon again as he
attempts to leave the stale stagnation of a mother-wife to pursue
his own inner spirit; or he may reflect Pentheus, driven mad by the
god Dionysos, or the victorious Theseus returning from Crete and
his successful battle with the Minotaur only to find that his father
has killed himself at the moment of the son's achievement.
Astrology, with its twelve zodiacal signs and ten heavenly bodies
encrusted with the dramas of many different myths, suggests, like
lung, that all myths move within us, some more dominant than
others, some appearing in the guise of our 'outer world', all
weaving the tapestry of the individual scheme of one's fate.
A few comments are appropriate on the relationship between
myth and astrological symbolism. Myth is not a structured, orderly
system of symbols like astrology or the kabala or the Tarot. It is a
fluid, dynamic enactment of images, each of which has many
different variations as the myth emerges spontaneously in differ-
ent cultures and at different stages of one particular culture. Thus,
the strange figure of Dionysos has several different fathers, several
different kinds of deaths and resurrections, several different epi-
thets added to his name, and several different spheres of human
life over which he presides as daimon, traversing the spectrum from
a god of death to a god of wine and drunkenness. But his core
remains the same wherever, and in whatever guise, he is found.
Robert Graves, in his work The Greek Myths, has laid out in
impressive detail the enormous variations on each mythic figure.
So has C. Kerenyi, whose writings on various of the Greek
pantheon are always worth perusing. What I am hopefully not
trying to do is to cram one symbolic system rigidly into another, by
saying that only one particular myth has relevance for one particu-
lar sign . Mythic figures and stories are certainly imbued with
different flavours and colours, and they tend to have affinity with
some signs and not with others. Some myths are so universal that
they are relevant to everybody: The quest of the hero is one of
these. The great mythic sagas describe human development in
general, and can be related to every sign and every life, and to the
whole symbol of the zodiacal circle. Anyone who has ever tried to
work out tight connections between mythic stories and figures has
found himself in a hopeless soup where every myth blends with
every other, and in the end one is left with what all great religions
Fate and Myth
173
eventually promulgate as their unique and inviolable truth: There
is only One. 50 I would suggest that myth be read as one would
read a poem, with the feelings and the imagination rather than
with the intellect, and with a sensitivity to the smell and taste and
colour of the tale, rather than with a concrete determination to find
out whether every Sagittarian one knows has, like Cheiron, a
wound in the thigh.
There is, I feel, another important distinction between myth and
astrological symbolism. The horoscope fixes life in time and space,
and describes the incarnated individual in the temporal, three-
dimensional 'real' world. It freezes the perpetually moving round
of the heavens, and crystallises this into a pattern which describes
the unfolding of a particular life. It is what has been written at birth
for one person, living at one time. It is fate grounded in time and
space, the daimon and the kerassigned to the individual for a little
time . For this reason, anything can have a birth chart: a human
being, a dog, a chicken, a book, a bumble-bee, an opera house, a
bank. The moment something, some thing, appears in life, its
beginning and its pattern of growth are mapped, fated, reflected,
contained and circumscribed by its birth horoscope. Moira, as we
have seen, means share or allotment, and daimon means dispenser;
and the birth chart is the share and dispensation given of the
heavenly round for one temporal moment.
Myth , on the other hand, is timeless and non-localised,as are the
signs and planets in astrology before they are frozen into the
posture of the birth horoscope. Myth does not exist as a thing in
time and space. Achilles battling Hektor before the walls of Troy
may be traced back to an historical event which occurred in
pre-classical Greece in a certain century, because, as 5chliemann
discovered, there really was a Troy and a Trojan War. But the
warrior-hero, of whom Achilles is one face, cannot be so pinned
down, nor can the hero's battle with his brother-foe. This theme
erupts spontaneously in every culture at every time; it is an image
of an archetypal human situation. That it also enacts itself out-
wardly is therefore not surprising, for history reflects these arche-
typal patterns just as individual people do . Nor is it surprising that
stories such as that of Achilles are remembered and retold century
after century. They continue to resonate even in the apparently
tamed and technological life of the modern Western man and
woman. Myths are the shapers and denominators of culture as
surely as they are of persons. They have no concrete form, no
temporal or spatial reality, although the names and places in
particular versions of a given myth bear these temporal and
geographical stamps. They are tendencies, intents, ordering
factors: images of instinctual patterns.
174
The Astrology of Fate
I am inclined to fantasise the gods, the heroes, the mythic
protagonists, gathered in occluded shadow around the zodiacal
wheel, behind the planets. Where a particular myth can find a
congenial home within resonant patterns in an individual horo-
scope, then that myth will enter a person's life, and cling to him
throughout his life as his daimon. It will appropriate that astrologi-
cal configuration into its own story. Different gods are perhaps
more or less at home in different horoscopes, and sometimes
radically opposite characters attempt to live within one chart. They
enter and exit at different stages of life, like actors on cue, accord-
ing to the progressions and transits. And we may meet them in the
form of 'other people' as welJas in our own motives and character.
I can think of no better paralJel than the Greek theatre, where each
actor wore a mask - called a persona (which is where lung took the
term from) - to announce the archetypal role he played. But the
actor beneath the mask remained unseen and unknown except to
his fellows. Thus, perhaps, we appear to the gods, playing out our
parts, and believing ourselves to be 'different' and 'free', while all
the time we dance the ancient dance that has been choreographed
from the beginning of time. So perhaps it is as well to ask, in
keeping with the spirit of the play, which god, or which pair or
group of protagonists, combines with one's Venus in Aquarius
opposite Pluto in Leo, or one's Sagittarian ascendant, or one's
Mars conjunct Jupiter in Gemini in square to Saturn in Virgo in the
tenth house. For until one has a feeling of the mythic drama at
work, the statements of astrology are fragmented and incomplete
and seem merely to describe static behaviour. And they do not
reveal their story.
I have never found it to be very productive to play 'tell me what
my myth is' games with the horoscope. There are so many myths,
and the individual transforms or combines or cooks these myriad
different themes into an individual broth that cannot really be
delineated in a few sentences by even the wisest of astrologers. I
also wonder whether it is truly possible to envision the course of
the play while we are still on the stage. Perhaps on the other side of
death the script may read complete, but the most we can glimpse at
any given moment is the scene we are enacting, and the connec-
tions with past scenes, and the faintest intuitive flickerof what the
next act of the drama might be.
Most of the myths to which I will be referring in the following
pages are Greek, with the occasional smattering of Egyptian and
Teutonic lore. This is not because other mythologies are irrelevant,
but because I am not very well versed in them. It remains up to the
reader to find out which mythic images are most resonant to him,
or work best for him, and to amplify our astrological language
Fate and Myth
175
further in accord with his own experience. I am personally drawn
to the multiplicity and subtlety of the Greek pantheon, which, with
the exception of the Hindu, is also the most ironic and filled with
humour. Yet I have met people who have a deep love of the stark
dignity and simplicity of Egyptian myth, or the romance and
'feyness' of Celtic fairy lore, or the moral honesty of North Amer-
ican Indian tales, or the passionate mysticism of Russian folk
tales,or the grandiose cosmic sweep of the Hindu gods. I believe
that the individual often feels a strong connection with the gods of
his own heritage as well- family, national, and racial. One meets
these 'hereditary' gods in dreams, although one might believe they
were left behind by more cynical parents and grandparents long
ago. The Bible,of course, abounds in some of the richest and most
profound of mythic themes, and there are not many aspects of the
human saga which it does not encompass; although there are some
who might find this way of looking at it offensive, preferring to see
it as a body of concrete and literal truth while the stories of other
religions and cultures are 'merely' myth. On the other hand, it is
salutary to remember that to the Greeks, Oidipus and Orpheus,
Achilles and Zeus, the Erinyes, the Gorgons, Mother Dia and
Moira were also 'true', and as factual and 'real' to that culture as the
life of Jesus is to ours .
Even a single figure, such as Artemis the lunar goddess, or
Hermes the trickster god, cannot be disinterred from the stories in
which it is embedded. Myth contains motion, and is not static. It
describes processes and movements, as well as qualities. A zodia-
cal sign, seen through mythic eyes, is also a dynamic story, rather
than one set of character traits or one mode of behaviour. Eachsign
contains its own conflicts, ambivalences, dualities, motives, lacks,
longings, collisions and resolutions between characters. It is my
experience that when these dynamic figures move within a perso-
nality - and their movements can be seen most clearly in dreams
and in astrological progressions and
transits -
they reflect
movement between different parts of the psyche. Ifwe exteriorise
our myths, which all of us do at different times in life, then we
draw others into our lives to take up one role or another, and we
identify unconsciously with one or another figure in the story. In
this way, the figures of myth are the active and dynamic aspect of
our fate, the daimones, and we draw the outer world into our own
myths at the points where the outer world's myths touch our own.
Thus we, as the vessels for myth, create our fate.
8
Myth and the Zodiac
ARIES
Have we not allonefather? hath not oneGod created us?
Malachi ii.10
We have already met the ferocious figure of Ares-Mars the war
god, the ruler of the sign of Aries. We must now consider the Ram
itself, for the constellations which are associated with the zod iacal
signs are complex and very ancient, and contain many themes
which add surprising dimensions to the traditional interpretations
of astrology. We shall probably never know by what process a
particular animal or figure came to be connected with a particular
group of stars. But as with the names which have been bestowed
upon the planets, there is a curious synchronous 'rightness' about
these archaic associations. The Ram was known to the Egyptians
as the primeval god Ammon, or Amun, whose name means 'the
hidden one'. This antique ram-headed deity was said to be the
force behind the invisible wind. He was also called 'he who abides
in all things', and was imagined as the soul of all earthly phenom-
ena. The Greeks associated Ammon the creator god with their own
Father Zeus, for the phallic Ammon embodied the forces of
generation and fertilisation, initiating and then maintaining the
continuity of creative life.
The numinous procreative power of the ram-headed Egyptian
god suggests that there is more to Aries than mere combat. This
deity is an image of phallic power, whether this resides in a man or
a woman; for Ammon is the original creative spirit which out of
itself generates the manifest universe. There is no 'reason' for this
dynamic impetus; it is simply an attribute of Aries, just as phallic
power is an innate attribute of the Egyptian Ammon and the Greek
Zeus, and of the Biblical Yahveh as well. Zeus or Djeusin the old
Indo-European language means 'light of heaven', and Zeus is thus
Myth andtheZodiac
177
the illuminator, the daimon of lightning and lightening, of illumi-
nation and enlightenment. I have often wondered why traditional
read ings of Aries do not seem to touch on the intellectual power
and vision which Ihave often met in this sign. I have seen far more
Ariens (and by this I include Aries rising, moon in Aries, etc.,
rather than strictly sun in Aries) who are dedicated to mental and
spiritual enlightenment than I have seen the traditional pugna-
cious sportsmen-Ariens who live for physical combat.
When the Greeks came to weave their magical mythic tales
around the constellations which they inherited from Babylon and
Egypt, they wove about the image of the Ram the story of the
supernatural ram, sent by Zeus, which saved Phrixus and Helle
from their wicked stepmother and carried them on its back toward
Colchis. Helle fell off and drowned in the sea, which was named
Hellespont after her, but Phrixus managed to arrive intact at
Colchis and came under the protection of King Aeetes, himself a
magician and a son of the solar god Helios. Phrixus sacrificed the
ram and hung up its fleece in a sacred grove guarded by a dragon,
where it turned to gold; and it was this same golden fleece which
Jason and his crew of Argonauts sought through many dangers.
The fleece was sacred to Zeus, and once again we are presented
with this unlocked-forconnection between Aries and the fiery king
of the gods. This golden fleece, and Jason's quest for it, seem to
portray the theme of the slaying of the Old Father, and the quest for
individual spiritual identity, which I feel to be at the core of the
drama of Aries the Ram.
The story of Jason is relevant to our exploration into the pattern
of development inherent in Aries. For the fleece came from Iolkos,
Jason's birthplace, and is in some way a symbol of his 'true' father,
his own inner spirit. Jason's tale is typical of the hero-myth. He was
the rightful heir to the throne of Iolkos in Thessaly, but his wicked
uncle usurped the power and the child's life was endangered. He
was sent to the wise Centaur Cheiron in secrecy, where he was
raised and taught the arts of war. The kingly inheritance usurped,
and the endangered infancy, are, as Campbell points out in his
work on the hero-myth, archetypal patterns which appear in every
hero's story. He is not automatically born a hero, but must come to
it through trials and suffering, in order to find what was always his
had he but known it. Jason must contend, in his quest, with two
destructive males, two kings, and here we are presented with the
archetypal struggle with the Terrible Father. In Neumann's work,
The Origins andHistory ofConsciousness, he writes about 'the fathers'
as the representatives of law and order, handing down the highest
values of civilisation. They embody the world of collective values,
which manifest themselves in the psychic structure as 'conscience'.
178
TheAstrology of Fate
The hero must thus become a breaker of the old law, because he is
the enemy of the old ruling system and the existing court of
conscience. So he necessarily comes into conflict with the fathers
and their personal spokesmen, who in the story of Jason are first
the wicked uncle Pelias and second the sorcerer-king Aeetes.
The 'wicked king' or personal father figure, representing the old
ruling system, sends the hero forth to fight the monster -
Sphinx, witches, giants, wild beasts, etc. - hoping that it will
prove his undoing .. . With the help of his divine father,
however, the hero succeeds in vanquishing the monster. His
higher nature and noble birth are victorious, and are themselves
proven in the victory. The ruin wished upon him by the negative
father redounds to his glory and to the negative father's own
ruin. Thus, the old king's expulsion of the son, the hero's fight,
and the killing of the father hang together in a meaningful way.
They form a necessary canon of events which, in symbol and in
fact, are presupposed by the very existence of the hero, who, as
the bringer of the new, has to destroy the 01d.85
When Jason came of fighting age, he returned to Iolkos, resolved
to claim his inheritance. On his journey he lost a sandal while
helping an old woman (who was really the goddess Hera in
disguise) to cross a stream. Wicked Uncle Pelias, meanwhile, had
received an oracle warning him to beware of a man with one
sandal. When the two confronted each other, Pelias put on a bland
face, acknowledged Jason as the rightful heir, and promptly sent
him off to retrieve the Golden Fleece which his ancestor Phrixus
had brought to Colchis, so that the disturbed ghost of Phrixus
could be laid to rest. Thus the Terrible Father sends the son off into
danger, hoping, as Neumann says, that it will prove his undoing.
Jason, in response to this, gathered together the famous crew of
Argonauts and made his voyage through many perils, helped by
the gods Athene, Poseidon and Hera, to the court of King Aeetes.
Here he slew the dragon with the help of the King's daughter
Medea, a priestess and sorceress, stole the fleece, returned to
Iolkos where he rid himself of Uncle Pelias, and became King.
The impulse to launch oneself into dangerous situations in order
to prove one's manhood is characteristic of Aries and, although it
may sound strange at first, characteristic of the Aries woman as
well as the Aries man. For this Terrible Father is not limited to men
alone, nor is the quest for the 'true' creative Father within. The
fleece itself, the emblem of this 'inner' and individual set of
spiritual values, seems, as we have seen, to be the theriomorphic
or animal representation of the 'hidden' god. King Aeetes, who is
its guardian, is a cut above Pelias in that he is semi-divine, and a
Myth and the Zodiac
179
sorcerer; he is the archetypal Terrible Father, where Pelias is the
personal one. That this is a fate, rather than a mere imaginative
exercise, is suggested to me by the number of Arien people I have
met who have been driven out into life suffering from problems
with a tyrannical or restrictive and destructive personal father.This
father has often emasculated his son, or has been overly critical and
suppressive of the son's natural 'inheritance', or has blocked the
son from any independent creative expression. A similar situation
often seems to occur in the lives of Arien women, where the father
is no less dominant or restrictive, and the husband - who is uncon-
sciously chosen because he is like the father and a necessary char-
acter in the myth - takes over the role of refusing permission for an
independent life. The Terrible Father may reappear, long after
childhood, in the form of institutions or superiors at work; or he
may surface as masculine competition for a desired lover or a
desired prize. This pattern is not 'pathological'; it is mythic, and is,
on some level, the image of Aries' necessity. Here Father stands as
both the obstacle and as the means of growth.
Jason managed to find his fleece and bring it home again through
the agency of a woman. This isalso characteristic of the hero-myth,
for the 'woman' is the anima, the unconscious itself in the guise of
'helper' and 'bride', who finds solutions where the individual ego
can find none. Were Jason a female character, no doubt he would
have been helped by Aeetes' son, for the animus in a woman's
psyche seems to serve the same function in terms of development.
In fact, more than one woman assisted Jason, for although the
Argonauts comprised a boatload of male warriors, it was the
goddess Hera, grateful for Jason's early service to her, who got him
out of the nasty messes he encountered on his journey. And Medea
with her witchcraft and occult powers helped him to escape the
wrath of King Aeetes, the guardian of the fleece. But Jason evi-
denced a typical Arlen problem when he arrived back at Iolkos, for
he tired of Medea and courted the daughter of the King of Corinth,
giving up his connection with the inner 'witch-like' anima who had
helped him and desiring instead a woman who could bring him
collective power and recognition. He was not content with what he
had got, but had to have more and yet more. This is the flaw, the
hubris which is Aries' danger, and which if the individual is uncon-
scious of it will lead him to a fall. Thus Jason angered Medea, who
was not a woman to be taken lightly; and in revenge she
slaughtered not only the new bride, but their own children as well,
and escaped in a chariot drawn by winged dragons, leaving her
former lover under a curse. After this, Jason plummeted steadily
downhill, ageing and impotent, and was finally killed by a blow on
the head from a fallen timber broken from his own rotting ship.
180
The Astrology of Fate
I am not suggesting that the ignominious end of Jason is neces-
sarily the fate of Aries. But his problem certainly is. It is ironic, and
true to the subtle tragi-comic nuances of myth, that the young hero
who battles with the old Terrible Father to inaugurate a new order
should repudiate his own inner feminine self in order to court the
very collective power which he had previously undergone his
quest to fight. The mysterious identity between the hero and his
enemy is here implied, forJason by the end of his story has become
himself the Terrible Father, and the nemesis which dogs him is that
his own children are killed. On an inner level, perhaps this sad
ending to a glorious tale is a necessary passage for Aries, before a
new cycle begins and a new quest arises for a new fleece. A great
deal may be destroyed before Aries rises out of his disintegration to
pursue another challenge. Aries as father or mother rather than as
son or daughter suffering at the hands ofa domineering father may
discover that the myth is the same but the roles have changed, and
his own children rebel against his latter-day tyranny.
There are other mythic rams which have been associated wilh
the sign of Aries besides Zeus' golden phallic fleece. Lucian, the
Roman poet, identified the ram with the golden lamb which
figures in the tale of Atreus and Thyestes which we encountered
earlier. When these brothers were quarrelling over the throne of
Mykenai, according to one version of the tale, Zeus decided to
settle the dispute in favour of Atreus by sending him a golden
lamb, a symbol of sovereignty. ButThyestes seduced Atreus' wife
and persuaded her to steal the golden lamb for him. Zeus then sent
an even more impressive portent: the sun changed its course in the
heavens, and day turned into night. No one could quarrel with
that, and Atreus was duly made king, and Thyestes was banished.
We have already seen what happened next. But here once again
we encounter the image of the ram as sacred to Zeus, the symbol of
the god's potency and dominance, and the object of contention
between two brothers. This quarrel is another dispute about male
supremacy and potency, of which the ram is the emblem, and the
stealing of the woman as well as the golden lamb reflects another
dimension of Aries' fate: the love-triangle which is less about the
desired object and more about the competition involved. It is also
interesting to note that the ram is the primary sacrificialanimal in
the Old Testament. It is the beast which is offered up to Yahveh,
who bears many similarities to both Zeus and Ammun - in
particular the latter, 'the hidden one'. The Yahveh of the Old
Testament is a highly ambiguous Father, and his relationship to his
good servant Job is as ambiguous as the relationship between
heroes like Jason and the Terrible Fathers with whom they must
struggle.
Myth and the Zodiac
181
There are other myths which are relevant to Aries, but the one
with which I would now like to conclude is the one which began
this chapter: the story of Oidipus. This may seem surprising, for
Oidipus, thanks to Freud, has become the emblem of the mother's
son who must fight the father to obtain his incestuous and long-
desired prize. For Freud, the problem of Oidipus is the problem of
a man's fantasy-wish for union with his mother (or, under the label
of 'Elektra-complex', a woman's fantasy-wish for union with her
father). The killing of Laios thus represented for Freud the son's
terror of castration by his father, and the murderous jealousy
which springs from his desire to claim the mother. But evidently
Freud did not read the complete myth, or chose to ignore salient
aspects of it. Oidipus killed his father without having met his
mother. It was his rage which overcame him; he was infuriated
because the old King insisted on first passage down the narrow
road. Oidipus in the story is fiery and red-haired, and his anger is
notorious. From the beginning his conflict is with the Father: He
refuses to accept Apollo's oracle, believing that his own will is
capable of refuting the dictates of the god and of fate. Perhaps the
ironic insight which this tale offers is that the violent battle
between the males, arising from their own relationship and secret
identity rather than from the contest over any woman or prize,
leads in the end to the same source of life. Freud seems not to have
placed much importance on the origin of the curse which came
home to roost upon Oidipus, but I am inclined to feel it is
exceedingly important. King Laios committed a sin, and the sin
was perpetrated against a male and made another male its victim.
Thus he violated the laws of host and guest, by raping Pelops' son,
and violated also the laws of his own sex because of the violence of
the assault. It is this infringement upon masculine 'rules' which
eventually leads to the birth of Oidipus and the terrible fate which
awaited him. Here the 'ancestral sin' is on the side of the father
rather than the mother, and it must be expiated by the son . The
father is not in 'right' relationship with the masculine principle; he
has become truly terrible, and the son must fight him. As I
understand the Oidipus myth, it is, from its beginning, a story of
father and son .
The Oidipal battle within families seems to be a prime enactment
of Aries' pattern, and I have seen it unfold in both men and
women. But the point of the battle is not so much the possession of
the parent of the opposite sex. It is the overthrowing of the old
order and the assertion of the independent, individual spirit; and
this enacts itself as the fierce competitiveness of the sign. Yahveh
declares that His people must worship no other god; and so, too,
does Aries, who often cannot abide any companion of his or her
182
TheAstrologyof Fate
own sex unless that companion is so different as not to provide
competition, or inferior enough not to pose a threat. Just as love-
triangles are common with Libra for reasons which we shall explore
in due course, so too are they common with Aries, for different
reasons. The rescue of the damsel in distress (or the sensitive man
in distress) is a favourite life-pattern of Aries, and so is the cham-
pioning of the underdog and the lost cause. Butthe distressed lover
is less relevant than the battle itself. If there were no battle, it is
doubtful that Aries would bother with the damsel. Of course, it
need not be a physical damsel; with some Ariens the thing which
must be redeemed from the grip of the Terrible Father is an idea, or
a philosophy, or a creative contribution which is not being valued
by the 'fathers' in the world at large. It is Aries himselfwho feels the
distress, and projects this upon an outer object, for the Terrible
Father who castrates his son does so by not letting him achieve
self-fulfilment and victory. As Neumann puts it:
He [the Terrible Father] acts, as it were, like a spiritual system
which, from beyond and above, captures and destroys the son's
consciousness. This spiritual system appears as the binding
force of the old law, the old religion, the old morality, the old
order; as conscience, convention, tradition, or any other spiri-
tual phenomenon that seizes hold of the son and obstructs his
progress into the future. Any content that functions through its
emotional dynamisms, such as the paralysing grip of inertia or
an invasion by instinct, belongs to the sphere of the mother, to
nature. But all contents capable of conscious realisation, a value,
an idea, a moral canon, or some other spiritual force, are related
to the father-, never to the mother-system.P"
The father-son drama will appear again later in the zodiac, in
particular in the signs Leoand Capricorn.The dimension which we
are meeting here in the first sign is the initial battle for freedom, for
there is room for only one god in heaven. The potency of Zeus,
Ammon and Yahveh would be meaningless if there were several
other deities allsharing the job, and for Aries there is and can never
be any other than one deity, 'the hidden one' which manifests as
his own phallic power. Because his battle is with God the Father,
Aries must be fully conscious of what he is doing, and needs to
reverence the deity against which he strives. In other words, he
must be 'devout', rather than merely angry. If he acts in the arro-
gance ofhubris, as Jason did when he threw Medea aside and scrab-
bled for the kingship of Corinth, then his deeds will infallibly come
to naught. But his encounter with the Terrible Father creates perso-
nality and inner 'authority'; he can then handle the responsibility
of the kingship he has fought for. Without this struggle, he remains
Myth and theZodiac
183
the eternal son of his father, the eternal rebel who throws stones
through windows from without, but can never enter the place
where the fleece lies hidden which embodies his own manhood.
TAURUS
Mother of God! no ladythou:
Common woman ofcommon earth!
Mary Elizabeth Coleridge
Three different mythic bulls claim the honour of being associated
with Taurus. One is the white bull that carried Europa from her
home in Tyre to Crete; this bull was Zeus himself, transformed into
animal form for the usual purpose of abducting or seducing the
woman of his choice. The second is a cow rather than a bull, the
animal form of 10, another of Zeus' paramours, whom Hera in her
jealousy turned into bovine shape. The third and most famous is
the Cretan bull with which Pasiphae, the wife of King Minos of
Crete, fell in love, and which fathered the monstrous Minotaur
that the hero Theseus had to kill. We will consider the symbolism
of the bull itself, and of 'cow-eyed' Aphrodite-Venus the planetary
ruler ofTaurus, in due course; but first let us begin with the story of
the Cretan bull, which seems to have profound bearing on Taurus'
fate.
King Minos was the son of Europa and Zeus, himself the child of
the god turned bull. He was King of Crete, and wielded great
power from his island seat over all the Greek islands and parts of
the mainland. When young, he contended with his brothers
Rhadamanthys and Sarpedon for the throne, and asserted his
claim by divine right. He prayed to the god Poseidon, lord of the
sea and of earthquakes, to send a bull out of the sea as a sign,
sealing this prayer with a vow to sacrifice the animal immediately
as an offering and a symbol of service. Poseidon, who is also
portrayed in bull-shape, complied; the beast duly appeared; and
Minos took the throne. But when he beheld the majesty of the
beast, he thought what an advantage it would be to possess such a
creature in his herd, and risked a merchant's substitution, which
he supposed the god would not notice or mind. Offering on
Poseidon's altar the finest white bull that he owned, he added the
sacred sea-bull to his herd.
Poseidon, however, was not amused at the substitution. He
retaliated at the blasphemy by enlisting Aphrodite to inspire in
Minos' wife Pasiphae an ungovernable passion for the bull. She
prevailed upon Daedalus, the celebrated artist-craftsman, to make
her a wooden cow in which she might receive the bull in sexual
union. Daedalus performed the work, Pasiphae entered the cow,
184
The Astrology of Fate
and the bull in turn entered Pasiphae. Of this union was born the
Minotaur, a hideous monster with a human body and bull's head,
which fed upon human flesh. Minos in his fear and shame hired
Daedalus to construct a labyrinth in which the foul creature could
be hidden, and into which groups of living youths and maidens
were left for the Minotaur's meals.
The primary fault in this sorry tale lies not with Queen Pasiphae,
but with Minos himself, although the Queen acted out the fate he
invoked. About Minos' flaw, Joseph Campbell writes:
He had converted a public event to personal gain, whereas the
whole sense of his investiture as king had been that he was no
longer a mere private person. The return of the bull should have
symbolised his absolutely selfless submission to the functions of
his role. The retaining of it represented, on the other hand, an
impulse to egocentric self-aggrandisement. And so the king 'by
the grace of God' became the dangerous tyrant Holdfast - out for
himself. Just as the traditional rites of passage used to teach the
individual to die to the past and be reborn to the future, so the
great ceremonials of investiture divested him of his private
character and clothed him in the mantle of his vocation . . . By
the sacrilege of the refusal of the rite, however, the individual
cut himself as a unit off from the larger unit of the whole
community, and so the One was broken into the many, and
these then battled against each other- each out for himself- and
could be governed only by force.87
Campbell goes on to describe this figure of the tyrant-monster
who is so common in fairy tales (frequently a giant, like Fafner and
Fasolt in Wagner's Ring); the hoarder of the general benefit, the
monster avid for the greedy rights of 'my and mine' . It is interest-
ing to note that Hitler was a Taurean, as were Lenin and Marx. 50 is
Queen Elizabeth II, who seems to have understood to a remarkable
degree the deeper meaning of her investiture as Queen, and
remains a symbol of stability and moral firmness for the whole of
the United Kingdom. But the tyrant-monster of which Campbell
writes is the challenge of Taurus, its dark face which must at some
point be met in life. The earthy power which allows the tyrant to
accrue his wealth, as Minos gathered wealth and power over the
seas, is the gift of Taurus; but the dilemma lies in his relationship
with the god, and which god it is he serves, the deity or himself.
The story of Minos ends in a stagnant situation, where a destruc-
tive monster lies at the heart of the apparently abundant realm.
This situation of stagnation leads inevitably to the coming of
Theseus, the hero who must release the deadlock. It is a character-
istic irony of myth, which we have already met in Aries, that
Myth and theZodiac
185
Theseus - who, like Minos, is a king and divinely fathered - is the
child of the bull god Poseidon. The creature which he must
confront at the heart of the labyrinth is the dark, bestial form of his
own spiritual father, as well as the symbol of Minos' sin. Thus
Minos, his Minotaur, and the hero Theseus are bound by the same
symbol of the bull, for they are aspects of the same archetypal core.
And Minos and Theseus are in a sense doubles of each other, for
one commits the sin against the god, while the other must redeem
it.
But what is the bull, the symbol of power which must be
dedicated to the god? We have seen, in the imagery of Aries, that
the ram is connected with the hidden God, with phallic power and
potency and the omnipotence of the Father. The bull is an alto-
gether different animal. He is not fiery; he is earthy, and while he is
connected with the fertility of the earth, this is not the same as the
fertile creativity of heaven. In the Buddhist tale of the taming of the
bull (which is sometimes portrayed as an ox), a man isshown in the
various stages of development, where he must learn to tame the
recalcitrant bull and where ultimately man and bull vanish and are
revealed as part of the same divine unity. The bull is not evil, but if
it is allowed to run the man, then it may lead him to destruction, for
he is at the mercy of his desires. But repression likewise is not an
answer. Man and bull must perform a dance where each comes to
respect the other. In these Eastern images the problem of the
relation between the ego and the instincts is portrayed, and this
problem lies at the centre of Taurus' pattern of development.
Other mythic stories also portray the struggle with the bull. One
of the most powerful is the Zoroastrian god-man Mithras, the
Redeemer, who is always portrayed in his famous cap with his
hands about the bull's throat. Herakles also must conquer a bull.
These motifs of the conquering and sacrifice of the bull seem to
deal with submission to a greater Self, and the realisation that the
power of the bull is not 'mine' but must be directed towards a more
transpersonal goal. Whether we consider bull or, as in the myth of
10, cow, we are faced with the same animal. The primary associ-
ation with this creature is, not surprisingly, the goddess Aphro-
dite, who is called 'cow-eyed' and whose nature may tell us a good
deal about the meaning of this beast which it is Taurus' fate to
encounter and tame.
Aphrodite-Venus has more 'personality' and clearer outlines
than virtually any other Greek goddess. She is not just an abstract
concept meant to personify some dimly sensed order in the
cosmos. She is terribly alive, and this quality transmits itself from
the sculptures of her which we have inherited, dating back before
the Greek era to the great goddess Ishtar of the Middle East. She is
186
The Astrology of Fate
gifted with generous and carnal affection and a complete lack of
ambivalence about sex. Paul Friedrich, in his book On theMeaning
ofAphrodite, calls this 'sunlit sexuality', in comparison with female
deities such as Artemis and Athene for whom the sexual act is
equated with pollution. Where the body is a pollution to most of
the Olympians, it is sacred to Aphrodite. This is in part why she is
usually portrayed nude, where the other goddesses are almost
always covered up . She seems to embody naked, unashamed
nature. She also acts as a mediator between the world of the
immortals and the world of men, just as Zeus does, for she is
happy to mate with mortals. Generally a mortal man who has
sexual relations with a goddess is punished by death or castration
or worse. We have met an example of this in Ixion, who was
punished by being bound forever to a fiery wheel for his attempt to
seduce the goddess Hera. But Aphrodite is a potential lover forany
god or hero who catches her fancy. In this sense she is prepared to
come into incarnation, to relate to the world of living men and
earthly things. She can be looked upon in her nudity by mortals;
therefore she is accessible to human experience, unlike gods such
as Apollo and Artemis who remain elusive and punish those who
peer too closely.
Aphrodite is an active female: She takes the active role in wooing
and seduction, love and love-making. She is never raped or
assaulted by a male; she is so powerful sexually that this would be
impossible. In no way does she resemble the victim-like women
whom Zeus and the other male gods pursue, abduct, rape and
humiliate. Aphrodite is an image of relative sexual equality, a rare
being for a time in history when the prevailing collective view
leaned in the opposite direction. She is also the patroness of
courtesans, although she presides equally enthusiastically over
passionate sex within marriage. While Hera, queen of the gods,
stands for the structures and moral codes which bind the institu-
tion of marriage within the collective, Aphrodite embodies its
conjugal joy and fertility. Procreation, desire and satisfaction,
adornment and culture, beauty and erotic arts: all these belong to
her. Her love-making is a civilised art, in contrast to the physical
violence and rapacity of Ares-Mars. Paul Friedrich writes:
The drives of sexuality are natural; on the other hand, sophisti-
cated
love-making is highly cultural. Aphrodite mediates
between the two, 'puts them together'. Or, better, she does not
make them identical but interrelates them and makes them .
overlap to a high degree. To put it yet another way, we can agree
that she is a 'goddess of rapture' but ought to recognise that this
rapture harmoniously blends natural and cultural ingredients.88
Myth and the Zodiac
187
Aphrodite's gifts, however, have a double edge. The arts of love
and the satisfaction of desire can unite man and woman in har-
monious sexuality and a happy wedded life. Buton the other hand
they can generate rivalries, jealousies and passions that acutely
threaten the relations between individuals, kinship groups and
even nations. Thus Minos' passion for the sacred bull leads to his
wife's overwhelming passion for the same bull, and the monster
that results becomes the canker that rots the kingdom from within.
Even the cow, which seems such a peaceable creature, can lead to
chaos and destruction. In the early cosmogonies Aphrodite has no
mother, but is born of the union between the sea and the severed
genitals of Ouranos after he is castrated by his son Krenos. This
suggests that whatever Aphrodite is, she is not maternal in the
ordinary sense, although she is fertile. Perhaps it would be more
appropriate to say that she is in no sense a wife, although she
favours the physical joys of marriage. Friedrich suggests that she is
the most 'solar' of the goddesses:
Artemis and Hera are strongly lunar, the former typically
moving in the moonlit midnight air, the latter often depicted
with a lunar crescent. Their symbolism has rich antecedents in
Old European civilisation, and there is of course the more
general psychological association between the moon and men-
struation, virginity, and the female principle in general . . . It is
Aphrodite who more than\any other goddess is unambiguously
solar in many passages, and this solarity is naturally connected
with her goldenness. Note that she seduces Anchises by day-
light. There is a deep-lying opposition or contrast between her
sunlit sexuality and Artemis' furtive and moonlit anxiety and
hostility as regards carnal love.P?
Allthis paints a vivid portrait of one aspect of our bull. One may
well ask why Theseus, or Mithras, must then subdue it, for
Aphrodite seems a benign goddess with qualities which our
present culture badly needs. But it is due to her wiles that the
Trojan War began, and the havoc she causes is always a threat to
relationship, whether on an individual level or a collective one.
She is a most ambiguous goddess. In Sparta, she was worshipped
as a bloody battle goddess, and her Egyptian counterpart Hathor,
the cow-headed goddess, likewise was said to thrive on blood and
slaughter. Perhaps we need to look again at Hitler, who not only
had the sun in Taurus but also Libra rising, and was therefore
doubly ruled by Venus. The Buddhist formula seems to bea most
appropriate one: Do not slay the bull, but learn todance with it in a
developing pattern of mutual respect, so that the bull becomes
more human and the human more animal. I have met many
188
The Astrology of Fate
Taureans who have attempted to cope with the potential problems
of the bull, its powerful passions and its single-minded covetous-
ness, by 'splitting', i.e. withdrawing into the intellect in order to
avoid the threat of the overwhelming senses. This is of course no
solution; it is what Minos did by stuffing the Minotaur into the
labyrinth. The body then usually rebels against the tyranny of the
mind. Likewise I have met Taureans who are imprisoned in their
senses, where the bull or cow runs the man or woman; and this too
satisfies neither bull nor human partner, for then we are back with
King Minos who repudiates the Self and attempts to possess for his
own gratification what is not his, with tragic results.
We have so far dealt with the female aspects of the bull. But
Aphrodite is part of a pair in myth, and although she is no wife in
the conventional sense, nevertheless she is married: to the strange
god Hephaistos, who is called Vulcan in Latin, and who was given
to her as a husband by Zeus and Hera. Whenever gods are paired
in this way in myth, I feel that something is implied about two
halves of a single archetypal pattern. Although the marriage of
Aphrodite and Hephaistos is an uncomfortable one, a marriage it is
nonetheless; he is her 'right' spouse. We must therefore consider
him, for he also can give us insights into the nature and fate of
Taurus.
Hephaistos is the divine smith, and he is mirrored by the smith
gods of many cultures, for he is ugly and lame. He has much in
common with the Teutonic dwarfs, for he is a creature of earth and
his skill lies in his artistry and his physical power. According to the
tale, he was so weak and sickly at birth that his disgusted mother
Hera dropped him from the heights of Olympus to rid herself of
the embarrassment of such a pitiful son . Ihave met this sad pattern
in the early lives of many Taureans, whose families had hoped for
something more flamboyant, more brilliant, and more effervescent
than the slow and earthy creature which the Taurean child so often
is. Hephaistos survived this misadventure because he fell into the
sea, where the sea goddess Thetis took care of him and helped him
to set up his first smithy. He rewarded her kindness with many
beautiful and useful objects. Eventually Hera saw Thetis wearing a
lovely brooch which Hephaistos had made, and upon finding out
that it was her lost son who was the creator, summoned him back
to Olympus where she offered him a finer smithy, married him to
Aphrodite, and made a great fuss of him . Eventually they patched
up their quarrel, and he even went so far as to reproach Zeus for his
treatment of Hera when the king of the gods hung his wife by her
wrists from Heaven because she had rebelled against him. Zeus in
anger heaved him down from Olympus a second time, and he was
a whole day falling. On striking the earth he broke both legs, and
Myth and the Zodiac
189
became lame; afterward he could only walk with golden leg-
supports. Graves says of him:
Hephaistos is ugly and ill-tempered, but has great power in his
arms and shoulders, and all his work is of matchless skill. He
once made a set of golden mechanical women to help him in his
smithy; they can even talk, and undertake the most difficult
tasks he entrusts to them . And he owns a set of three-legged
tables with golden wheels, ranged around his workshop, which
can run by themselves to a meeting of the gods, and back
again. 90
This is a curious marriage, between the beautiful, indolent and
mischievous Aphrodite and her ugly, ill-formed yet gifted spouse.
She despises his ugliness and is forever unfaithful to him, yet she
cannot be parted from him. Ithink that this pair of figures forms an
uneasy core to the sign ofTaurus, for there is that in the sign which
possesses the marvellous skill, power and ingenuity of Hephaistos
yet which is slow, clumsy and unglamorous, and there is also that
which embodies beauty and which despises its own physical
imperfection. Whether the Taurean acts this strange marriage out
through an actual partner, or whether it forms an inner conflict
between the idealism and the earthiness of the sign, nevertheless
this marriage is a given, a kind of fate. The ego perhaps needs to
come to terms with the bestial bull; but the bull itself is divided,
between its coarseness and its grace, and all three comprise the
daimon which infuses this deceptively simple sign.
GEMINI
I fought with my twin,
Theenemywithin,
Till both of us fell by theroad . . .
Bob Dylan
Twins have always carried a numinous connotation. Despite our
modern knowledge of the biological processes which lead to the
birth of identical twins, nevertheless it is fascinating and disturb-
ing to look at two people who look like one person, yet are not.
Various sets of twins have been associated with the constellation of
Gemini, and all of them carry this fascinating quality. One of the
least known which is connected with Gemini is the pair called
Zethus and Amphion, who were sons of Zeus by Antiope. Zethus
was strong and energetic, and a true warrior; Amphion on the
other hand received the gift of a lyre from Hermes, and played
upon it with a master's skill. Zethus despised his brother's addic-
tion
to
'womanish'
pursuits,
while
Amphion energetically
190
The Astrology of Fate
defended the value of art and the intellectual life. With this myth
we are already touching upon one of Gemini's fundamental con-
flicts: its inherent oppositeness.
The twins Castor and Polydeuces (Pollux in Latin) are much
better known than Zethus and Amphion, and are the pair gen-
erally associated with the stars of the constellation ofGemini. They
were the sons of Leda, the wife of King Tyndareos of Sparta. Zeus
turned himself into a swan to court the lady, who laid two eggs as a
result of their union. From one egg emerged Castor and Klytaem-
nestra, whom we have already met as the wife of Agamemnon in
the Oresteia. These two were the mortal children, the offspring of
King Tyndareos. From the other egg came Polydeuces and Helen,
who were the children of Zeus. Thus there are two sets of twins in
the story, one male and one female: Castor and Polydeuces, who
are called the Dioscuri - which means sons of God - and Klytaem-
nestra and Helen. Half ofeach pair is mortal, half immortal. Here is
embodied not only the motif of the hostile brothers (or sisters), but
also of brother-sister twin-souls. In the story, Castor and Poly-
deuces quarrelled with another set of twins, called ldas and
Lynceus. In the ensuing battle, Castor, who was mortal, was slain.
Polydeuces' grief was so great at the loss of his beloved twin that he
appealed to his father Zeus to restore his brother to life,or toaccept
his own life in ransom for Castor's. Zeus, rather out of character,
displayed compassion for the twins, and the two brothers were
allowed to enjoy alternatively the boon of life, passing one day
beneath the earth in Hades' realm and the next in the heavenly
abode of Olympus. Thus the twins reflect a cyclicalexperience of
opposites, for when they are mortal, they must taste of death and
darkness, but when they are divine they partake of the pleasures of
the gods. It is traditionally given that Gemini is a moody sign,
inclined to swing from elation to depression. This is not surprising
when we consider this myth, which portrays vividly the conflict-
ing experiences of bondage to a mortal body with its sense of loss
and death, and exaltation to the realm of spirit and eternal life.
Myths relating to the birth of 'heavenly twins', one usually
representing good and the other evil, occur in the epics of Greece,
Rome, Egypt, India and China. They are one of the great archety-
pal motifs of myth. Sometimes both twins in an identical way have
produced good for mankind or for their immediate society; thus
the twin deities of Hindu tradition, the Asvins, the great chariot-
eers of the sky, were rain-makers and givers of fertility. But more
often one twin personifies the light and the other the dark. In
Roman myth, the twins Romulus and Remus were sons of the war
god Mars, and grew up suckled by a wolf; they founded the city of
Rome. But the brothers quarrelled over the site, and Remus, in
Myth and the Zodiac
191
trying to kill Romulus, was himself slain. Remus is the 'dark'
brother who seeks to destroy his 'light' brother Romulus, and
comes to a bad end. This pairing of a dark force with a light touches
on a profound human dilemma, the problem of whatJung calls the
shadow, the inner enemy who is also a brother, born of the same
womb, who cannot ever be wholly conquered yet who must be
eternally fought. Another image of this problem may be found in
the relationship between Jesus and Judas in the New Testament. In
the Old Testament we meet the brothers Cain and Abel, who
although they are not twins nevertheless represent a polarity. Cain
is the dark brother, Abel the light. Satan and Christ are likewise
both sons of God; so, too, are Esau and Jacob, another pair of
quarrelling brothers. It would seem that the daimon which presides
over Gemini brings the individual into inevitable conflict with this
dark opposite. Frequently it is experienced through another, most
often in the sibling relationship, where one brother or sister is the
'good' one whom the parents love, and the other is the 'bad' one
who carries the projection of the shadow for the family. In these
exteriorised situations it is much more difficult to discover the
enemy within, and the warring ofopposites which must ultimately
meet at the centre.
Ivor Morrish has written an extremely interesting book called
The Dark Twin, in which he explores the theme of the twins in
relation to the problem of the shadow and of evil. About the twins,
he writes:
Whilst we have used the term 'twins' in relation to the oppo-
sition of Good and Evil, it should be noted at the outset that
many of the 'doubles' in mythology relate simply to siblings,
usually brothers, one of whom is 'good' or does acceptable
things, and the other of whom is 'bad' or a performer of actions
regarded as 'evil' or unacceptable in his society. Twins,
however, have always been regarded as something special and,
ifnot related directly to divinity, yet as possessing some unusual
power or mana which works in opposition, rather like the
positive or negative forces of electricity or the north and south
poles of a magnet. There is, thus, in the concept of the twin a
certain balance or equilibrium implied, a closeness and simi-
larity without a complete identity; and ultimately, at least in
mythology, a certain opposition is indicated which may lead
through increasing hostility toan attempt by one twin to destroy
the other. 91
My experience with Gemini has taught me that in early life, either
the 'good' or the 'bad' twin is separated off and projected outward
onto someone or something else in the environment. Slowly the
192
The Astrology of Fate
individual, by coming into collision with this opposite, begins to
discover that it is himself, although this often does not occur until
the second half of life. In the case of actual twins - and I have met
many who are born under Gemini - this becomes even more
difficult, for usually one twin is very obviously the extroverted and
confident one and the other the inhibited and 'neurotic' one, and
the pressure from family and society, not to mention their own
needs, makes it difficult for a separation to occur. But sooner or
later, the internal battle becomes apparent. Yet as Morrish points
out, there is an equilibrium to these opposites. Each without the
other is incomplete, and the whole personality is dependent upon
them both. Neither would develop without the other. The oppo-
sites may vary. Like the first twins we met, Zethus and Amphion,
the quarrel may be between masculine and feminine, or between
intellectual and emotional values, or between spiritual and cor-
poreal goals. Or it may fallbetween negative and positive qualities,
of which both extremes are usually present in Gemini. As the
rhyme goes, 'When she was good she was very very good, and
when she was bad she was horrid.' Ifother people find this quirky
or difficult, it is doubly difficult for the Gemini, who usually
confuses himself thoroughly and who must find a way to reconcile
these warring principles while at the same time accepting the fact
that they may never wholly blend into some lovely harmonious
idealised unit devoid of conflict. The danger is that if Gemini
cannot facehis own oppositeness and contrariness, the shadow (or
the light) will inevitably land on siblings, friends, partners, or,
most difficult of all, on a child of the same sex, who may then be
doomed to act out the 'bad' side of the parent because this badness
must exist somewhere outside if the parent is to retain his or her
complacency.
The theme of dark and light extends even deeper into myth, and
permeates the vision of the world's great religions. Hermes, whom
we will explore in greater detail shortly, enters alchemy as Mereu-
rius, the ambiguous and unpredictable, dark-light spirit that
guides the opus yet threatens always to destroy it. He/she is
volatile, androgynous, both base matter and elixir, the carrier of
every conceivable opposite, and is portrayed as the dark twin to
Christ. Thus Mercurius is the chthonic double of the Son of God,
who is born to the darkness of Mother Earth. Dualistic religions
such as Zoroastrianism also reflect this ambiguity ofa double-faced
universe. Ahura Mazda (Ormuzd) is the light principle, while
Angra Mainyu (Ahriman) is the dark one. Ormuzd promotes life,
happiness and eternal well-being; Ahriman seeks only death,
misery and suffering. Through Gemini's eyes the cosmos falls into
opposites, and just as Castor and Polydeuces spend half their time
Myth and the Zodiac
193
in Hades and half on Olympus, so too does Gemini, perceiving
now only the good in life, now only the evil.
In Norse myth Baldur and Loge embody the quarrelling
brothers. Baldur is beautiful, graceful and idyllic; in fact, he is too
good to be true. Loge is dark and cunning- brilliantly portrayed in
the Bayreuth centennial production of the Ring as an ugly
hunchback, crooked in body as well as in thought - and is
ultimately responsible for Baldur's death. Alberich and Wotan
stand in this relationship in the Ring, where Wotan himself recog-
nises their doubleness and calls himself 'white' Alberich while the
dwarf is 'black' Alberich. On the human scale, Siegfried and
Hagen confront each other as the golden hero and his black
shadow. But the death of Siegfried at the hands of Hagen is, like
the death of Baldur at the hands of Loge, in some way necessity, or
fate. The bright hero is a little too bright, a little too invulnerable,
and a little too far away from ordinary human suffering and
ordinary human longing to perform his appointed task of redemp-
tion. He can be injured only from behind, implying that the bright
heroic stance can deflect anything in life but the shadow, the
unconscious. At the end of the Ring, all seems dark and depress-
ing, because the hero has been destroyed and the world of the gods
is coming to an end. But if I read Wagner's theme correctly, he
seems to be saying that what is left after the destruction is human-
ity itself, after the gigantic world of the two-dimensional gods has
fallen into twilight. Thus Judas must betray Jesus and Jesus must
fulfil his appointed sacrifice, so that a symbol might be offered to
man which unites the opposites in life. Cain must destroy Abeland
be accordingly marked, and Satan must persuade God to punish
Job and must plague Eve toeat the apple. Richard Donington in his
book on the Ringcycle says:
If Hagen is to some extent a shadow personal to Siegfried,
Alberich is the very Prince of Darkness. If man takes to devilry,
this scene reminds us, that is because the devil isalways there to
urge it. But the devil's provocation plays its part in the growth of
character, which largely consists in learning how inseparable
(but not irreconcilable) ~ood and evil are. The diabolical is the
underside of the divine. 2
Wagner, who was himself a Gemini, was probably quite intimately
acquainted with the problem . Certainly he has come down to us in
biography as a thoroughly contradictory, insufferable and difficult
man, yet also as one of the greatest artists history has ever
produced. Less flamboyant Geminis have perhaps the same pro-
found insight to gain, and it is my feeling that the turbulent
changes that so often occur in Gemini's life and which are so
194
The Astrology of Fate
frequently fostered by the individual's own tricksterish shadow-
side are deeply necessary.
We may also find hostile sisters in myth, for as with all the signs
the sex of the hero may as easily be replaced by its opposite. lnanna
and Ereshkigal, whom we met earlier in the book, are two such
inimical sisters, and once again the 'light' one has something to
learn - nothing less than death and regeneration - at the hands of
the 'dark' one. Artemis and Aphrodite are also enemies in Greek
myth, as we saw when we explored some of the mythic themes
of Taurus. Artemis' virginity and Aphrodite's carnality are
thoroughly at odds. The theme of 'the other woman' (which also
seems to be a recurrent theme in the lives of Geminis) appears in
connection with Hera and all the numerous loves of her husband
Zeus. Even in fairy tales we meet this theme of two jealous women,
sometimes vying for the affection of a man, sometimes vying for
power: Snow White with her Wicked Queen, and Cinderella and
her ugly, jealous sisters. Psyche and Aphrodite battle with each
other for the love of Eros, and even Dorothy must battle the
Wicked Witch of the West in TheWizard ofOz. (Appropriately, the
part of Dorothy was played in the classic film by Judy Garland, a
Gemini.) Jealousy between siblings, eravy between friends, con-
flicts with rivals - all these themes are the external enactments of
the Gemini myth, which, sadly, is all too infrequently understood
as a contest between two halves of oneself.
The character of Hermes embodies within itself this ambiguity
and flickering of light and shade of which the twins are another
emblem. Hermes is Zeus' cleverest son. He was born to Maia,
which is both the name of a nymph and also the name by which
Zeus addresses the great goddess Night when he seeks an oracle of
her. Thus Hermes is not just the child of any ordinary woman; she
is an older, more powerful deity, and the mating of Zeus and Maia
becomes not just another of his usual rapes, but the union of the
bright spirit with the dark unfathomable depths of the uncon-
scious and of nature itself. Zeus, it is said in the story, courted her
in a dark cave under cover of night, and she bore a son of great
cunning: a deceitful flatterer, a robber and a cattle thief, a bringerof
dreams and a nightly prowler (as Kerenyi puts it, 'as are those who
lurk in the streets before the gates').
Hermes began his chequered career by inventing the lyre and
stealing his brother Apollo's cattle. He later became the initiated
Messenger on the path to the House of Hades in the underworld,
thereby fulfilling the office of Psychopompos, the escort of souls.
Thus he can traverse the worlds of above and below, and the
mortal realm which lies in between. He is the only deity who is not
assigned a 'place', for his place is the borderland, the roads and
Myth and the Zodiac
195
passageways and crossroads where suicides are buried and crimi-
nals hung. Human beings benefit from Hermes, but sometimes he
wilfully leads them astray in the dark night. Interestingly, one
version of the god's birth makes him the twin brother of Aphro-
dite; they are both children of the sky god Ouranos, and share the
same birthday on the fourth day of the lunar month. Their sonwas
Eros, the great daimon of love and discord . This curious tale of
Hermes' birth offers us another dimension to his character, for he
is far more than a mere trickster. His twin and soul-mate is the
goddess of fertility, and their child is an image of the great binding
force of life. Hermes fosters relationship even through quarrelling
and separateness, and brings things together through their differ-
ences; and vice versa.
According to Walter Otto's description, Hermes 'lacks dignity'.
His strength lies in his resourcefulness. He accomplishes his deeds
through guile and enchantment; magic is more appropriate to him
than heroism, which is perhaps why, in the Renaissance, the
magical texts which we met earlier were assigned to Thrice-
Greatest Hermes. He is an arch-wizard and patron of magicians.
From him also comes gain, cleverly calculated or whoUy unexpec-
ted - but mostly the latter. Otto writes:
.
That is his true characterisation. If a man finds valuables on the
road, if a man has a sudden stroke of luck, he thanks Hermes.
The regular word for any windfaU is hermaion, and the familiar
expression for avidity is 'common Hermes' (koinos Hennes). To
be sure, a man must often take a good deal of trouble before he
receives the gift of this god, but in the end it is always a lucky
find. The Hindu god Pushan is a parallel of Hermes, for this god
also knows the way and leads the way, keeping a man from
straying.l"
lung was fascinated by the sometimes brilliant, sometimes
murky figure of the trickster, and in particular by the Mercurius of
the alchemists. To him, this figure represented the mysterious
momentum of the unconscious, sometimes destructive, some-
times humorous, sometimes terrifying; but always ambiguous,
and always fertile. This ceaseless fertility that weaves the dreams
and nightmares of our sleep was embodied by the pre-classical
Greeks, who placed Herms - votary statues of the god - at every
crossroads. The Herm was nothing more than a slyly smiling
bearded head placed at the top of a rectangular pillar, with an
erect phallus pointing the way. lung writes in his essay on the
trickster archetype:
The trickster motif does not crop up only in its mythical form but
196
The Astrology of Fate
appears just as naively and authentically in the unsuspecting
modem man - whenever, in fact, he feels himself at the mercy of
annoying 'accidents' which thwart his will and his actions with
apparently malicious intent.94
lung connects this tricksterish figure with the shadow, and we
have returned fullcircle to the hostile brothers of the Gemini myth.
The so-called civilised man has forgotten the trickster. He
remembers him only figuratively and metaphorically, when,
irritated by his own ineptitude, he speaks of fate playing tricks
on him or of things being bewitched. He never suspects that his
own hidden and apparently harmless shadow has qualities
whose dangerousness exceeds his wildest dreams. As soon as
people get together in masses and submerge the individual, the
shadow is mobilised, and, as history shows, may even be
personified and incarnated.f"
Fate certainly plays tricks on Gemini, because this is an attribute
of his own soul. The creative fertility of Hermes is reflected by the
long list of Geminis who have left us a heritage of great art;
Wagner, Danteand Thomas Mann are only three among them. But
it is my feeling that the annoying 'accidents' of which lung writes,
and the conflicts with rivals which seem to be strewn across
Gemini's path, can lead to a deep appreciation of the exquisite
ambiguity of life and the mystery of a dark-light god. No doubt
Gemini would be bored with anything less.
CANCER
Out of Water aI/lifecomes.
The Koran
The constellation of Cancer, as one writer points out, is the most
inconspicuous figure in the zodiac. The humble Crab was not even
always a crab; for the Egyptians envisioned it as a beetle rolling a
ball of dung. This was the scarabaeus, the symbol of immortality,
with its nestball of earth in its claws. In Egyptian myth it is an
image of self-creation, since it was believed to come into being of
itself from its dung-ball. (In reality, ifthat is the right word, the ball
of dung protects the eggs and larvae.) The scarab beetle was called
Khephri, which means 'he who came forth from the earth', and it
was equated with the creator god Atum, a form of the sun god
because the beetle pushes its dung-ball before it as Atum pushes
the solar ball across the sky. Humble though the constellation of
Cancer may be, its symbolism is far from insignificant. To the
Chaldeans and later the Neoplatonists, the Crab was called the
Myth and the Zodiac
197
Gate of Men, through which the soul descended from the heavenly
spheres into incarnation.
These numinous associations with Cancer suggest a dimension
rather different from the good cook and mother with whom we are
presented in popular astrological lore. Hugh Lloyd-Jones in his
book Myths of the Zodiac96 says that according to some early Greek
writers, Cancer rather than Aries began the zodiac. This seems to
accord with the idea that it represents the first emergence of life,
the entry of the spirit into a corporeal body. The cusp of the fourth
house in the horoscope, which is Cancer's natural house, has long
been associated with the end of life; here it is also imaged as the
beginning, for this is the point of the sun at midnight when the old
day dies and the new day is born . In Egyptian myth the sun god
traverses the heavens each day in his golden boat, and each night
he descends into the caverns of the underworld; there he battles
with the terrible Serpent, and emerges at each dawn victorious to
begin a new day . This deeply mystical linking of Cancer with the
very seed and source of lifeconnects it not only with the primordial
Mother, but with the Father as well, for this mythic language is
concerned not only with emergence from the womb but also with
the spiritual seed that fertilises and begins new life. Ihave seen this
mystical element strongly at work in the lives of many Cancerian
people; and it can sit paradoxically side by side with the more
conventionally maternal and personal qualities of the sign.
The Greek myth of the Crab places it more firmly within the
realm of the Mother. The Crab appears in the saga of the Labours of
Herakles, in particular during that hero's battle with the Hydra,
the nine-headed serpentine monster which had been destroying
the Lernaean countryside. During the fight, all other living crea-
tures favoured Herakles, but out of the marsh in which the Hydra
lived crawled an immense crab, sent by the goddess Hera to defeat
the hero who was her enemy. The crab snapped at Herakles with
its pincers, biting him on the feet and ankles, and this rather
characteristic Cancerian manoeuvre almost lost the hero his battle.
But eventually Herakles stamped on the crab and crushed it. Hera
honoured it for doing her bidding by promoting it to the heavens.
Hera's hatred of Herakles (whose name, with deep irony, means
'glory of Hera') is ostensibly because he was the son ofone of Zeus'
paramours. But it is really the anger of the matriarch against the
upstart hero who threatens her rule. Certainly there isa darker face
of Cancer which reflects this problem, and the battle to free oneself
from the power of both mother and Mother is often a pronounced
and difficult issue in the lives of Cancerian people. The crab is here
the archaic Cancer for whom motherhood is all, and for whom the
father is merely the provider of the seed. This more regressive
198
The Astrology of Fate
element in Cancer pits itself against the ego's claim to conscious-
ness and freedom of choice, just as the archetypal Terrible Mother
prefers to battle with and even destroy her son rather than permit
him to escape herdomination. The crab in the myth uses the classic
Cancerian wiles, snapping at the feet rather than confronting the
hero directly. In other words, it undermines the hero's stability
while he is struggling with the monster. Crab and Hydra are in
league, and one can see this rather unattractive pattern at work in
certain relationships where one partner will nominally give love
and support while secretly undermining the other during his or
her most difficult struggle. This is the dark side of the sign, which
must be met by whatever in the individual is heroic. The problem
of Hera's crab is not exclusively a feminine one either, for the crab
lurks in the swamps of both men and women in whom Cancer is
strongly tenanted in the birth chart. One can often see in Cancerian
men a great difficulty in relating to their own sex, because the
'heroic' aspects of the masculine seem merely brutal, aggressive
and violent.
Thus we are presented with two dimensions of Cancer: the
Terrible Mother who seeks to retain control over the nascent
individuality, and the Divine Father who is the source of life and
towards whom the individual aspires. Erich Neumann, in The
Origins andHistory ofConsciousness, suggests that these two World
Parents are part and parcel of the same unity, which to the mind of
the primitive and the child appears androgynous and has been
imaged for millennia as the World Serpent or Uroboros, the snake
which eats its tail and devours itself only to give birth to itself once
again. This Uroboros is the most ancient symbol of man's origins,
arising from that depth of beginning where world and psyche are
still one, and where the original question about the origin of the
world is at the same time the question about the origin of man, the
origin of consciousness and the origin of oneself. In answer to the
query, 'Where did I come from?' this powerful image arises from
the depths, which is both mother and father at once. It is the
original perfection before opposites and conflict began, the egg out
of which the world was formed. Therefore the Uroboros is the
primal creative element - what Jung termed the ocean of the
collective unconscious - which slays, weds and impregnates itself
for all time. Cancer represents this maternal womb, but it is not
solely maternal. It is also a union of masculine and feminine
opposites, the World Parents joined in eternal cohabitation. I feel
that Cancer is driven to seek this divine source; that is its daimon,
which is imaged both as the beginning of life before physical
separation and birth, and the end of life when the soul is once
again joined in unity with the One. Thus it is both a regressive
Myth andtheZodiac
199
longing for the womb, and a mystical longing for God. Understan-
dably, the projection of this primal symbol falls first upon the
personal mother, which is perhaps why she looms so powerfully
in the lives of Cancerians regardless of whether she is really, in any
objective sense, so potent. The classic 'mother-complex' of the
Cancerian is not really about the personal mother. It is the first
stage of a gradual unfolding towards an inner source, although
usually Cancer during different periods of his or her life will seek
this source embodied in a 'maternal' person, male or female, who
can 'take care of' him and remove his fear of isolation and sepa-
rateness. Cancer women too seek this Mother-Father in their
relationships, or strive to become it themselves in the act of
mothering. But it seems a sad if necessary fate that many Cancers
are denied actual children, or must let those children go, so that the
deeper meaning of the myth may enact itself in lifeand the divine
Parent may become an inner container.
Existence in the time before the beginning is supposedly con-
nected with foreknowledge. The creature that still exists in the
round participates in the knowledge of the unformed, is merged
in the ocean of wisdom. The primal ocean, likewise an origi-
nation symbol- for as a ring-snake the uroboros isalso the ocean
- is the source not only of creation but of wisdom too.97
Along with the problem of what Neumann calls 'uroboric incest'
- that overwhelming longing to retreat from lifeinto the embrace of
the World Parents - there is also an immensely creative power in
Cancer. This is the realm of unformed images which the artist
midwifes into birth, and for this reason I am more inclined to
associate Cancer with the poet, the artist and the musician than I
am with the good cook and housekeeper. The list is very long -
Proust and Chagall are but two representatives - and it is an
impressive one. This daimon that stands behind Cancer seems most
concerned with bringing to birth the images of the oceanic realm,
whether this is in the form of a corporeal child or an artistic
creation. The latter is often more important to Cancer than the
former; and it may be projected upon a 'creative individual' whose
. potential Cancer elects to nurture.
In Greek myth, the oceanic realm which is the source of life
belongs to the sea goddess Thetis. She is both a beneficent life-
giver and a monster; her predecessor in Babylonian myth is the
great sea monster Tiamat, who was slain by the fire god Marduk
and out of whose dismembered body the whole of creation was
made. Thetis or Tethys is therefore the Creatrix. Her name comes
from the word tithenai, which, like daimon, and also like moira,
means 'to dispose' or 'to order'. At the beginning of Genesis the
200
The Astrologyof Fate
spirit of God moves over the face of the waters. But Thetis is not
only God, she is the waters themselves, and she existed long
before the Hebrew Yahveh came into being, containing within her
depths both male and female, seed and womb combined. She is
also called Nereis, whose name means 'the wet element'. From this
name comes the strange mythic figure of Nereus or Proteus, the
prophetic 'old man of the sea', who is pictured as fish-tailed with
a lion, a stag and a viper emerging from his body. He is the
sea-father just as Nereis or Thetis is the sea-mother, and he is a
shape-changer and a prophet. If one wishes to receive answers
from him, one must first bind him and wait while he transforms
into various terrifying animal forms; until eventually he assumes
his own curious shape and utters the voice of prophecy. Odysseus
in his long wanderings sought advice from Proteus, and had to
endure his shape-shifting until the old daimon eventually told him
what he wished to hear. This act of binding the old man of the sea
and waiting patiently while he mutates into every conceivable
shape of beast and monster is suggestive of an important aspect of
the creative process, where the artist must hold fast to something
ineffable that wriggles and transforms until it emerges as a stable
image. It is also suggestive of the analytic process, where the
shape-shifting images of dreams and fantasies must be firmly held
until they yield a meaning digestible by consciousness.
Thus Cancer has always had the reputation of being ambiguous
and difficult to pin down, which, I feel, is a euphemism. It is in the
nature of water and of the unconscious to slide fluidly from one
shape to another; and it is in the nature of Cancer to live in a world
where nothing is quite the same as it was five minutes ago.
Perhaps the way in which Odysseus deals with Proteus isan image
of something which it is important for Cancer to learn: to capture
the magical old man of the depths and hold fast to him until he
yields up his wisdom. Without Proteus, Odysseus could not have
found his way home again, but would have wandered eternally
over the waters, forever homeless.
Poseidon wanted to court Thetis, but it was prophesied that any
son of Thetis would be greater than his father. This theme suggests
that the children of the watery realm carry something numinous
about them, and it also opens up another theme which is relevant
to Cancer. This is the relationship of mother to son, and the
relationship of Cancer to its children in general, biological or
otherwise. Poseidon desisted from his courtship, and Zeus (who
in some versions of the story wanted her himself) decreed that
Thetis must marry a mortal, rather than endanger the gods by
bearing a child who might threaten the greatest of the Olympians.
Thus the sea goddess, who is also a prophetess in her male form of
Myth and the Zodiac
201
Proteus, can mate only with men. In other words, her creative
powers must be channelled through human consciousness and
human expression. This seems to parallel something which lung
has said, that the transformations and developments of the psyche
cannot occur as if by themselves, but depend upon the interaction
with the ego, even though the relationship, like Thetis and her
mortal lover, is that of something divine with something human.
This curious paradox is also portrayed in alchemy, where the act of
releasing the divine Mercurius, the philosophers' stone, from the
womb of the earth depends upon the participation of the human
alchemist, because the alchemical art 'makes perfect what nature
leaves imperfect'. lung quotes the seventeenth-century mystic
Angelus Silesius:
I know thatwithout me
God am no moment live;
Were I to die, then He
Nolonger could survive.
God cannot without me
A singleworm create;
Did I not share with Him
Destruction were its fate.
I am asgreat asGod,
And Heis small like me;
Hecannot be above,
Nor I below Him be . . .
. . . I am God's child. His son,
And He too is mychild;
We are the two in one,
Both sonandfather mild.98
The result of the wranglings on Olympus about the fate ofThetis
was that she married a man called Peleus. By him she bore the
famous hero Achilles, who bears all the hallmarks of a Cancer.
Graves calls his behaviour 'hysterical' when he sulks in his tent
before the walls of Troy, and in childhood Thetis tried to protect
him from involvement with the Trojan War by dressing him up as a
woman. Thetis in fact bore seven sons to Peleus, and true to her
matriarchal nature, she could not bear the idea that these would be
mortal children who were doomed to die. She managed to steal six
of them and burn off their mortal flesh so that they might ascend to
Olympus and take their places among the gods. Peleus was
outraged by this destruction of his sons, and managed to rescue
AchiIles just before all of the child was burned away; the father
202
The Astrology of Fate
kept his hand firmly on the son's ankle bone, which remained
mortal. This version of the tale seems to predate the story that
Thetis dipped her son in the river Styx to render him immortal,
forgetting the ankle she was holding. But the sentiment in both
tales is the same. When I have encountered this myth at work in
human lives, it often takes the form of a numinous projection upon
a favoured and beloved child, who is expected to reach Olympian
heights even if the child's humanity is destroyed in the process.
Sometimes Cancer, if there are no actual children upon whom this
vision of superhuman performance can be projected, will nurture
this attitude towards his own creativity, finding anything that
comes out of him flawed and distasteful unless it is divine . There
seems to be an issue here of why Cancer will often not live out his
creative potential himself, but will wait until a beloved partner or
child can perform the task.
Achilles has a rather curious history. It was prophesied that he
would either die young and gain great glory, or live a long but
inglorious life at home. It seems that the Fates were undecided
about him or else gave him more options than most people.
Naturally his mother Thetis preferred the latter choice, but
Achilles himself opted for the former. I do not think this needs to
be taken literally, any more than any mythic motif demands literal
enactment; but certainly the battle to free oneself from the goddess
means risking one's mortality, and perhaps dying on other levels
in order to become free. This monumental effort on the part of
Cancer is often the act that releases the potential of the creative
imagination. But there are as many, perhaps far more, Cancers
who opt for the other path, and remain close to the comfort of the
Mother all their lives, sacrificing whatever potential they might
reach . Thetis took an active part in preventing Achilles from
joining the warriors going to Troy, as we have seen; and it does
seem that Cancer experiences the personal mother as holding him
back from life. But Achilles was discovered hiding among the
women by Odysseus, who fetched him to the war. Throughout the
battles we see him being constantly interfered with by his goddess-
mother, who rushes to his tent bringing new armour, proper
clothes, clean linen and so on. One is surprised Homer does not
mention chicken soup. If the Iliad were not such a great and tragic
tale, it would be quite hilarious; and certainly this part of it is
painfully funny. The only thing which has the power to draw the
sulking Achilles from his tent to fight is the death of his dearest
friend and lover Patroclus. Only then is his true courage and mettle
revealed. This too seems to be a facet of Cancer: that nothing will
goad the sign into open confrontation with life save deep
emotional loss.
Myth and the Zodiac
203
The theme of the Great Goddess is a thread which runs through
many other signs of the zodiac in one aspect or another. Cancer
seems to describe her as bringer-forth of life and ruler of the sea.
She is the uterine waters from which the child emerges, and the
unconscious waters from which the individual identity emerges;
and this great image of Mother remains always the most powerful
force in Cancer's life. It tends to shift, in later life, from the personal
mother as the exclusive carrier to the creative unconscious, but in
whichever form Cancer meets her, he is always bound to her for
good or ill. The dark face of this daimon is the overpowering
mother-bond which paralyses both man and woman, and binds
them in such a way that individual potential drowns. The light face
is the potential to midwife the images of the unconscious. The
issue of separation from the mother is a monumental rite of
passage in Cancer's life, and it must be done not once but many
times, on many different levels. Like the actual crab, which must
stay close to both water and land, Cancer is driven to anchor
himself in the concrete world with one foot eternally in the water,
so that he himself ultimately can become the womb through which
the nascent children of the sea may be born.
LEO
Full fathom five thy father lies;
Of his bones arecoral made:
Those arepearls that were his eyes:
Nothing of him that doth fade,
But dothsuffera sea-change,
Into something rich and strange.
Shakespeare, The Tempest
The sign of the Lion, like that of the Bull, is a deceptively simple
one. We have become accustomed to descriptions of the loud and
kingly specimen of popular lore, and one could easily believe that
this sign has no deeper meaning than an extroverted and exhi-
bitionistic display of vigorous life. But there is an unexpectedly
complex pattern at work in Leo, and the figure of the king in myth
and fairy tale leads us very far away from the conventionally
shallow and showy lion into much more mystical terrain . Ihave for
a long time been convinced that Leo, ruled by the sun and
connected therefore with the mystery of the individuality and the
'fated' path of individual maturation, is not really about 'creating'
something that other people can applaud. More profoundly, it
seems to describe the development of unique individual essence
and its quest for its source. Although Leo is supposed to be the
'creative' sign and naturally rules the fifth house, a perusal of great
204
The Astrology of Fate
names among painters, poets, novelists and musicians reveals a
preponderance of Gemini, Cancer and Pisces; but Leo is sadly thin
on the ground. Whatever creativity may be about, I feel that Leo's
great creation is meant to be himself. Hence, like Capricorn which
we will explore in due course, and like Aries which we have
already met, the symbolism of Leo circles around the theme of the
king and his son, or the hero and his father. And, as we shall see,
although the lion has many female connotations in myth and isone
of the Mother's accompanying beasts, the battle between man and
lion, and the hero's quest for his spiritual father or the trans-
personal value in his own life, are closely bound up together.
The Lion of the zodiac was known both to the Egyptians and the
Babylonians, and was connected with the burning heat of the sun
during the summer months. Sekhmet, the Egyptian solar goddess,
is lion-headed, and scorches the earth with her rage. But the
Greeks identified the lion with the creature that Herakles battled in
one of his Labours, the Nemean Lion which was sent from the
moon to earth by Hera to plague the hero who was her adversary.
Why this lion should have come from the moon, and from the
goddess, we shall see; but, as the story goes, the first of Herakles'
tasks required that he slay the beast without weapons. An old man
directed the hero to the lion's lair. Once he was within range he
shot an arrow which struck the beast, but Hera had made it
invulnerable, and the arrow bounced off. Then Herakles went
after it with his club, thus violating the rules of the combat. The
lion took refuge in its lair, a cave with two mouths. The hero
blocked up one entrance with stones, and came upon the beast in
the darkness. After a terrific struggle he managed to grasp it by the
throat and choke it to death. Then he flayed it, and wore its hide
ever afterwards as a garment.
The tale of man battling beast is the oldest of archetypal motifs.
We have already met it in the myths connected with the first four
signs. In the broadest sense, it is the battle between the developing
ego and its instinctual roots, which must be tamed before the
individual can become truly individual. But it is the particular sort
of beast which is most relevant here, for this isa lion and not a ram,
a bull, a dragon or sea-monster, or a hostile brother. Sekhmet, as
we have seen, typifies the aggressive, fiery nature of the lion.
Kybele, the Great Goddess of Asia Minor, rides on a chariot drawn
by two lions, and Dionysos, whom we will meet later, also wears a
lion skin like Herakles and is often portrayed with lions in his train .
But the attributes of the lion, although often associated with the
feminine, are very hot-blooded and fiery attributes, far from the
cold-blooded snake-wisdom of the reptilian Mother. Jung has the
following to say about the lion:
Myth and theZodiac
205
In alchemy, the lion, the 'royal beast', is a synonym for Mereu-
rius, or, to be more accurate, for a stage in his transformation.
He is the warm-blooded form of the devouring, predatory
monster who first appears as the dragon .. . This is precisely
what the fiery lion is intended to express - the passionate
emotionality that precedes the recognition of unconscious
contents."?
The lion is also associated with concupiscence and pride. It has
an unmistakable erotic aspect, hence the association with Diony-
sos and Kybele, but it is also a fighting animal and suggests
healthy, as well as destructive, aggressive impulses. When we met
the Crab, we met a cold-blooded creature from the underwater
realm of the feminine. But the lion can be tamed and can respond
to human care - lions were kept as pets by Egyptian and Persian
royalty - and we are confronting something much closer to
consciousness: the lordly passions of the heart. Herakles and the
lion are certainly imaged according to the ancient pattern of man
battling beast, but this hero dons the skin of the creature he has
slain. He thus himself becomes lion-like, but the inflamed passions
are now contained. One cannot imagine him donning the crab's
shell, for it is too distant from human life. The emblem of kingship
is in the most profound sense connected with this capacity to
wrestle with the passions. The man who cannot contain his fiery
impulses cannot govern others, nor serve as an example to them.
We shall probably not be wrong if we assume that the 'king of
beasts', known even in Hellenistic times as a transformation
stage of Helios, represents the old king .. . At the same time he
represents the king in his theriomorphic form, that is, as he
appears in his unconscious state. The animal form emphasises
that the king is overpowered or overlaid by his animal side and
consequently expresses himself only in animal reactions, which
are nothing but emotions. Emotionality in the sense of uncon-
trollable affects is essentially bestial, for which reason people in
this state can be approached only with the circumspection
proper to the jungle, or else with the methods of the animal
trainer. 100
No astrologer, I think, would argue that this quality of fiery
passionateness is characteristic of Leo. But the lion is a stage in a
process, as Jung suggests; and it is this process or pattern which
brings us into the sphere of the 'fate' of Leo. It would seem, from
what I have seen of the life histories of Leos with whom I have
worked, that there isan alchemical work to be performed. The lion
is not permitted to remain in his bestial form, but must give way to
206
The Astrologyof Fate
something other. It seems a disturbing aspect of the pattern that
Leo is often treated, as Iung describes, with the cirumspection
'proper to the jungle', or with the 'methods of the animal trainer' -
the whip and the goad. This is a painful process for Leo, whose
childlike heart is deeply injured by the reactions of his fellows to
his own excesses. He 'meant it for the best', but somehow others
do not seem to be appreciative; they are more often angry. If Leo
himself does not glimpse the importance of the process, life tends
to teach him rather forcibly that a lion cannot roam loose among
men without some retaliation. More creatively, Leo chooses of his
own volition to undergo the quest, and for this reason the myth
which I associate most closely with the sign is the story of Parsifal,
or Perceval as he is known in French and English. This is a
medieval rather than a Greek myth, but its roots are much older;
and in virtually all its particulars I feel it portrays the life-pattern of
Leo.
The general outlines of the story of Parsifal's quest for the Grail
are well known, despite the many different versions. A myster-
ious, life-preserving and sustenance-dispensing object or vessel is
guarded by a king in a castle that is hidden or difficult to find. The
king is lame or sick; and the surrounding countryside is devastated
or wasted; this is the state of things in Eliot's poem TheWasteland,
which is based upon the myth of the quest for the Grail. The king
can only be restored to health ifa knight of conspicuous excellence
finds the castle and at the first sight of what he sees there, asks a
certain question. Should he neglect to put this question, then
everything will remain as before, the castle will vanish, and the
knight will have to set out once more upon the search. Should he
finally succeed, after much wandering and many adventures,
particularly involving encounters of an erotic kind (for Leowill first
search for his treasure in love, before he discovers it may lie within
himself), and should he then ask the question, the king will be
restored to health, the land will begin to grow green again, and the
hero will inherit the kingdom and become the guardian of the
Grail.
This story describes, at its outset, a state of spiritual sickness.
The old king cannot help his land or his people, and it rests upon
the shoulders of a young man to pass the test. But the test is not a
feat of arms. It is a question, i.e. a capacity to become conscious of
the meaning of things, a quality of reflection. Parsifal begins his
story fatherless, brought up by his mother in an isolated wood.
This beginning which has no father (or no father-principle,
although there may be a physical father present) is something I
have seen in many Leos' lives. The father is either absent or
wounded on some more profound level, and he cannot provide
Myth and the Zodiac
207
the sense of creative renewal of life which the son or daughter
needs; and so the child must go out seeking this principle, in the
form of his life's adventure.
Five knights in shining armour came riding through the forest,
and when Parsifal saw them he was overwhelmed and decided he
would become a knight. Naturally his mother, like Thetis with
Achilles, tried to prevent his leaving, but Parsifal is no mother's
son . He neither sulked nor dressed up as a woman to hide, but
simply walked out without even a goodbye. His mother then
immediately died of grief. This seems a necessary rite of passage
for Leo, although at the beginning of his adventures Parsifal is
clumsy and boorish . He is, indeed, the king in his theriomorphic
or animal form, the unconscious ruler-to-be, overcome with
emotional affect. Parsifal then battled with the Red Knight, who,
by the colour of his armour, seems to be another image of the fiery
emotionality of Leo, wearing the colour of blood, fire and life. Like
Herakles, Parsifal donned the armour of his defeated enemy. He
then encountered a lovely woman in distress, and received his
initiation into the erotic arts; but he left his lady with the same
clumsy callousness with which he abandoned his mother, once
again necessarily blind.
At length Parsifal came to a deep river, over which there was no
visible crossing; fate had brought him to the end of the road . He
had been brought to the place-of his potential task. He saw a
fisherman, who told him the way to the Grail castle; and the castle
suddenly appeared where previously there was nothing. The gate
was open, for he was mysteriously expected, and the suffering
Fisher-King awaited him. The king in the story was wounded in
the groin or thigh: he cannot procreate, for his manhood is injured.
This is a thinly veneered image of castration. A vision then
appeared to Parsifal, of a sword, a lance which dripped blood, a
maiden bearing a Grail of gold set with precious stones, and
another maiden carrying a silver platter. Students of the Tarot will
recognise these four sacred objects as the four suits of cups,
swords, wands and pentacles, and students of[ung will recognise
the quaternity which symbolises the wholeness of the Self. As
these four holy objects passed, Parsifal did not dare to say any-
thing. He retired to bed, and on waking found the castle deserted;
upon leaving it, he was then told by another woman whom he met
about the failure which he had just enacted. Had he asked the
question - Whom does the Grail serve? - then the king would have
been healed and the land renewed. Presented with his destiny for
the first time, Parsifal has, as they say, blown it.
He could only find the castle again after he had achieved the
necessary maturity, and the necessary compassion. At first none of
208
The Astrology of Fate
it meant anything to him; it was merely a show put on for his
entertainment. In their book, The Grail Legend, Emma Jung and
Marie-Louise von Franz stress the lack of capability of suffering
which is characteristic of the young Parsifal. Wagner, in his great
opera of redemption, seized on this theme of Parsifal's lack of
compassion. The hero first enters the stage having shot down an
innocent swan for the sheer sport of it, and is harshly reprimanded
by the Brothers of the Grail Castle for his callousness.[ung and von
Franz say:
His real offence actually lay in the primitive unambiguousness
of his behaviour, which arose from an unawareness of the inner
problem of the opposites. It was notwhat hedidbutthat hewas not
capable ofassessing what hedid. 10!
Parsifal's insensitivity to his mother, to the Red Knight (whom he
kills for no personal reason - it is not his quarrel - but simply
because he wishes to show off), to Blancheflor (the woman whom
he rescues and then abandons), and to the Grail King himself (for
whom he does not yet experience compassion and the inevitable
question which arises from that compassion) are embodied in the
alchemical image of the lion, the animal form of the king-to-be.
This naive clumsiness is, I feel, an integral part of the young or
immature Leo, just as is the state of fatherlessness; yet even with
this clumsiness, fate chooses him for the vision of the Grail before
he is ready to understand it. Whatever the Grail may be- a sense of
personal destiny, an early success, a youthful spirituality - itseems
to come early to Leo, not through labour but often through the
natural gifts and intuition of the sign . But then it is lost, because the
sense of its meaning has not been plumbed, and the ego claims the
success for itself. Thus it must be refound in consciousness, and
often through much hardship.
The king's wound is central to Wagner's Parsifal, and while
admittedly the distortions of the Parsifal story according to
Wagner reveal as much about the composer as they do about
Parsifal, nevertheless Wagner has chosen an archetypal theme,
only partly drawn from von Eschenbach's medieval poem Parzival.
In the opera, the Grail King Amfortas received his wound from the
evil magician Klingsor, at a moment when the king was rendered
vulnerable in the arms of the seductive Kundry, that ambiguous
feminine figure who serves both dark and light. KJingsor wanted
to be a Grail Knight, but Amfortas refused him; so the magician
castrated himself to make himself invulnerable to erotic tempta-
tion, and stole the spear from Amfortas in revenge. As a result of
the wound and the loss of the spear, the Grail Kingdom lay in
waste. Perhaps this gives us some insight into one of Leo's
Myth and the Zodiac
209
dilemmas; for in the brightness and nobility of his aspirations he
will not permit the lowly shadow, his own flawed humanness,
entry. That rejected shadow strikes back from the unconscious
through the disintegrating effects of uncontrollable eroticism.
Amfortas languishes unmanned in the arms of Kundry; he cannot
retain his 'purity' of vision, and he is thus a mockery, a soiled king
who is no longer fit to guard the Grail and is wounded by his own
gnawing guilt. Leo is, of course, not only Parsifal, but the sick king
as well, and also the evil magician; and he is, too, the woman who
destroys the king yet who later serves to heal him.
After Parsifal left the Grail castle, he went through many adven-
tures and much suffering. Through these experiences he accrued
both wisdom and compassion. Then, at last, he was able to return
once again to the castle, and look upon the Grail, and ask the fatal
question. At his words the king sprang up healed, and revealed
that he was Parsifal's grandfather; and the custodianship of the
castle and the Grail now belonged to the young knight. So at last
the fatherless son finds the father, but it is a higher father than the
fleshly one. This is the grandfather, the Great Father, who is the
benign source of creative life, and who begins the tale old, weary,
and in need of redemption. I feel that Leo's deepest urge is this
search for the Self, the central value in life - which is, in mythic
terms, the same as the search for the father. It is not the same father
whom we wiIl meet in Capricorn, for Capricorn's father is the
senex, the earthy law-giving principle which limits and structures
worldly life. Nor is the father of the Aries confrontation, the fire
god Yahveh with whom he must battle. Leo's father is the radiant
life-giver, worshipped for millennia as the sun. He is the more
merciful God of the New Testament, whose abundant flow of
compassion is embodied in the image of the Grail. Yet this father-
god needs renewal through the efforts of man to understand him.
Hence Leo, usually represented as a showy extrovert, is motivated
from within by a deeply spiritual urge . But the individual Leo may
remain forever the young Parsifal, unconscious of the meaning of
his existence and unable to ask the question.
Nor does redemption occur after the manner of the Indian
doctrine of salvation, according to which everything has to be
recognised as nothing but illusion. Here it happens in a different
way, not through the action of a god (though naturally it is Deo
concedente, since whosoever accomplishes it has to be destined
thereto by God) and also not through nature, but solely by the
unflinching exertions of a human being, Perceval; justasneither
more nor less than this can be brought to the opus of alchemy or
to the realisation of the Self. It must, however, be remarked that
210
The Astrology of Fate
Perceval's way to the Grail, the opus of alchemy, and the
realisation of the Selfall have this in common with the Christian
way of salvation: they all signify an opus contra naturam, i.e. not
of the least but of the greatest resistance. 102
This quest for individual realisation is not, of course, solely the
property of Leo. It is the basic path of the human soul, and we will
have more to say about individuation and fate later. But the myth
of Parsifal, although in a broader sense applicable to every man
and woman, seems to foreshadow sometimes eerily the pattern of
Leo's life. Perhaps the issue of discovering what it might mean to
be an individual is of primary concern for Leo, the most relevant
issue that can occur to him. It is therefore not surprising that lung,
who was himself a Leo, developed the concept of individuation
which has proven to be of such importance to modern depth
psychology. That this was the issue closest to his own heart is,
from the point of view of an astrologer, predictable, if one knows
something of the mythic backdrop of the sign; it was, ofcourse, his
fate. Thus the early success which he enjoyed as Freud's favoured
disciple and chosen heir was not sufficient for him, where it might
have (and did) satisfy others. He was compelled by his own myth
to follow the lonely road into his own depths, so that the view of
the psyche which he eventually developed came from his own
experience, his own intuition, his own research and his own
insight. And it was a peculiarly Leonine route, circling closer and
closer to a centre which lung felt to be as much a religious as an
instinctual experience. His disappointment in his father, who was
a churchman who had lost his faith, is also characteristic of the
pattern.lung attributed much of his own aspiration to this 'absent'
father, namely, his quest for a different kind of father, a direct
experience of the numinous. Leo, like Capricorn, often experi-
ences this disappointment in the personal father, because he
seems - and usually actually is - 'wounded', impotent in some
way, spiritually 'lame', and cannot offer a sustaining vision of life
as a meaningful and enriching experience.
We must now leave Parsifal behind, and consider one final
mythic image in relation to Leo: Apollo the sun god. This deity,
whose famous shrine at Delphi displayed carved in stone the
injunction, 'Man, know thyself', isa superior and even a grandiose
god. He is an image of loftiness of spirit, and is in himself a kind of
Grail. As Walter Otto puts it in The Homeric Gods, Apollo is 'the
manifestation of the divine amidst the desolation and confusion of
the world', and he is the most sublime of the Greek pantheon.
Phoebus, one of his epithets, means 'pure' or 'holy'. There is
something mysterious and inapproachable about the god which
Myth and the Zodiac
211
commands an awed distance. Apollo is the great healer and
purifier. He removes the pollution of corporeal reality and restores
the unclean man or woman to a state of grace. It is something like
this - the loss of the sense of inherent sin - which is bound up with
the experience of the Self. The relation of Apollo to the suppliant is
that of the Grail to Parsifal, and the question is the same; hence the
injunction over the door to the temple. As Otto puts it:
Life is to be freed of such uncanny barriers, of demonic
entanglements over which even the purest human will has no
power. Apollo therefore advises men in distress what is to be
done and what left undone, where atonement and submission
may be necessary. 100
As I understand this psychologically, Apollo is an image of the
power of consciousness, vested in it by the Self, which breaks the
'curse' and cleanses the unclean, freeing the individual of the
'uncanny barriers' which rise from the dark world of the uncon-
scious. He is ego-power at its most glorious, the victor in the battle
with the underworld serpent Python, the vessel of God as human
realisation. It is to Apollo that people pray when they need clear
sight, for his arrow penetrates even the murkiest of dilemmas, and
his music stills the confused and turbulent heart.
Apollo is not a god of women. He has rather poor luck, in fact,
with those women whom he courts, for he usually has a rival who
is more successful than the god himself. This is often the pattern
with Leo, who may have many adoring admirers, but often fails to
obtain the chosen object. It is my feeling that Leo is not the easiest
of signs for a woman, because its essence is so brightly and
brilliantly allied with the realm of Logos. Perhaps for this reason
many Leo women seem to evidence the lioness, the more emotive
face of the sign, rather than engage in the long struggle to achieve
the sense of inner meaning of which Parsifal is a symbol. Parsifal
belongs exclusively neither to men nor to women, for individuality
is not the prerogative of either; nor is the problem of redemption
through compassion and an understanding of the deeper source
which is the true creator of personality.
VIRGO
Truly, my Satan, thou artbutadunce,
And dost notknow thegarment from the man;
Every harlot was a virgin once.
William Blake, The Gates of Paradise
We have met already one of the myths which I feel to be intimately
connected with Virgo: the abduction of Persephone. Although I
mentioned this myth in relation to Pluto and Scorpio, the figure of
212
The Astrology of Fate
Persephone herself is a characteristic kore figure - a maiden - and
her fate reflects something very relevant to Virgo. It is this image of
the kore which I would now like to explore more fully.
The constellation of the maiden was identified by the Greeks
with the goddess Astraea (or Dike), who represents the principle
of justice. According to Hesiod, she was the daughter of Zeus.
Once she lived on earth, during the Golden Age when there was
no strife or bloodshed among men . She would sit in the company
of ordinary folk, and gather together the elders in the market place
and urge them to obey nature's laws. But with the gradual corrup-
tion of men, Astraea conceived a hatred for the human race
because of its crimes, and left earth forever, flying up to heaven to
join her father Zeus and becoming the constellation of Virgo. For
Hesiod, the figure of Astraea is stern, and a punisher of crime; she
has much in common with Nemesis, whom we have already met.
But Astraea's justice is not about law courts and the niceties of
social relationship. We will meet something more like that when
we come to explore Libra. Astraea, who is generally shown carry-
ing a sheaf of barley, is an earthier goddess. Jane Harrison, in
Themis, her study of the social origins of Greek religion, writes:
Dike [Astraea] is the way of lifeof each natural thing, each plant,
each animal, each man . It is also the way, the usage, the regular
course of that great animal the Universe, the way that is made
manifest in the Seasons, in the life and death of vegetation; and
when it comes to be seen that these depend on the heavenly
bodies, Dike is manifest in the changes of the rising and setting
of constellations, in the waxing and waning of the Moon and in
the daily and yearly courses of the Sun. 104
Here we have something not unlike the ancient figure of Moira,
although Astraea is not such a primordial goddess, nor is she
responsible for the apportionment of fate. She seems to be an
image of the intrinsic orderliness of nature, and her disgust at
humanity is a mythic image of the traditional Virgoan disgust at
disorder, chaos and wastage of time and substance. Like Astraea,
Virgo does not have a great deal of sympathy for those who have
wantonly made a mess of it. All things have their time and place
within the governance of the goddess Astraea; every natural form
in the universe has its appropriate cycle and value. It is not
surprising, with such a daimon presiding over the sign, that Virgo
inclines to ritualism and to a vision of life where 'justice' ought to
be restored.
Frances A. Yates has written a remarkable study of the theme of
the Virgin Astraea in sixteenth-century politics (called, appro-
priately, Astraea) when Queen Elizabeth I, who was herself a
Myth and the Zodiac
213
Virgo, was identified with this mythic figure. Yates has the fol-
lowing comments to make on the celestial Maiden:
The parentage of the Virgin is obscure; some call her the
daughter of Jove and Themis; others the daughter of Astraeus
and Aurora; others call her Erigone, daughter of Icarus, a
pious virgin whose little dog led her to her dead father's body .
She has affiliations with several deities. The corn in her hand
suggests that she must be Ceres [Demeter]. Sometimes she is
affiliated
with
Venus. Others think that she is Fortune,
because her head disappears amongst the stars. There is a hint
of Isis in her nature . . . but the female deity whom she most
resembles is Atargatis, the Syrian goddess, worshipped under
the name of Virgo Caelestis at Carthage, and associated with
Urania and, like Isis, with the moon. The just virgin is there-
fore a complex character, fertile and barren at the same time;
orderly
and
righteous,
yet
tinged
with
oriental
moon-
ecstasies.lOS
Complex, indeed: Virgo seems to embody a deep paradox, a
combination of upright and almost schoolmarmish Astraea set
side by side with the orgiastic lunar harlot goddesses of Asia
Minor. This paradox poses an enormous conflict for Virgo, and it
is out of the conflict that Virgo's pattern of development arises.
Whether this is enacted as a collision between personal and
professional
life,
between
marriage
and
independence
(a
common theme), between spirituality and materialism, between
morality and abandonment, Virgo struggles with these opposites
throughout life, trying to encompass them both. Often the
Virgoan individual will try to embody one while sacrificing the
other, and this generally provokes difficulties, for the fate of the
sign does not seem to permit such splitting. I feel that Perse-
phone as we meet her in the myth embodies only one half of
Virgo's paradox; she has elected to remain the virgin rather than
the harlot, and her secret unlived side - represented by Gaia or
Aphrodite in the story -leads inevitably to her abduction and her
enforced marriage to the lord of the dead.
The word 'virgin', like the sign, is complex. These days we are
prone to understand it as referring to sexual intactness and in-
experience, but this is far from the original sense of the word.
Our astrological Virgo in her mythic context is scarcely a virgin.
One need only look at figures like the black Artemis of Ephesus
with her hundred breasts, at whose behest every young woman
spent a night in the temple prostituting herself to a stranger as an
offering to the goddess before marriage, in order to find a contra-
diction to our twentieth-century interpretation. Yet Artemis is
214
The Astrology of Fate
called 'virgin'. As John Layard in his essay on the virgin archetype
writes:
In the first place, though we now think of the word 'virgin' as
being synonymous with 'chaste', this was not the case either
with the Greek word parihenos or with the Hebrew almah of
which 'virgin' is the most usual biblical translation. For the
Greek word was used of an unmarried girl whether she was
chaste or not, and was in fact also applied to unmarried
mothers. The
Hebrew word means likewise 'unmarried'
without reference to premarital chastity. 106
This leads us, inevitably, to the problematic image of the whore,
for the ancient virgin goddesses such as Atargatis and the Ephe-
sian Artemis were themselves harlots, and their temples were
served by prostitutes who embodied the deity and bestowed her
divine favours upon devout men, thus raising them also to semi-
divine status. In this sense, the prostitute is the same as the mythic
virgin, for she is an archetypal image of the free woman who is
wedded first of all to her inner being and only secondarily to a
man. Layard writes:
Thus in this sense the word 'virgin' does not mean chastity but
the reverse, the pregnancy of nature, free and uncontrolled,
corresponding on the human plane to unmarried love, in con-
trast to the controlled nature corresponding to married love,
despite the fact that from the legal point of view sexual inter-
course within the marriage bond is the only kind which is
regarded as chaste.107
One can see why this internal paradox creates considerable
tension in Virgo, which is known as a highly strung sign. Virgo's
inner morality, when it is genuinely inner and not borrowed from
the prevailing collective - as is the case with the more timid
member of the sign - is not at odds with what might be considered
rather unconventional sexual behaviour. Yet this inner morality of
itself can be very strong, and no less based on a sense of 'rightness'
than more conventional codes. I have met a number of pro-
fessional prostitutes during the course of my work, and some of
them have been Virgos, or Virgo ascendants, or moon or Venus in
Virgo; and I have been compelled to acknowledge this curious
dichotomy ofa strong inner moral sense coupled with what society
would consider grossly immoral, or amoral, behaviour. It has often
made me wonder who are the real whores, in the sense that we
generally use the word. Ifeel that the story of Persephone is a myth
which becomes a fate in a literal way only if Persephone cannot
align herself with her opposite - Aphrodite - and attempts to cling
Myth and the Zodiac
215
to virginity in the more literal sense, i.e. innocence and repudi-
ation of life. Then life, like Hades, has a way of erupting from the
depths and forcing experience on the maiden. But even when this
mythic pattern is fulfilled - and there are many levels and kinds of
rape - something fruitful emerges from the experience. Obviously
this issue does not deal solely with sexual matters, but embodies
an entire view of life. The harlotry of the virgin goddesses does not
mean merely sexual availability to all callers any more than 'virgin'
means merely sexual intactness. I would understand it more as an
openness to the flow of life, a willingness to trust the natural order,
an acceptance of penetration and change. Contrary to the popular
descriptions of Virgo, I feel this paradoxical daimon to form the true
core of the sign . Butit is difficult to achieve, just as the quest for the
Grail is difficult for Leo, and the reconciliation of opposites for
Gemini, and the taming of the bull for Taurus, and so on. It is far
easier, and more common, for Virgo to flee into ritualised or
obsessional behaviour, where the sterner aspects of Astraea sub-
merge the fecundity and joy of Atargatis. This is often the prelude
to the arrival of psychosomatic symptoms, for Atargatis is a deity
who demands entry through that most basic manifestation of life-
the body.
The inherent paradox of Virgo is beautifully expressed in the
gnostic text of the fourth century called TheThunder, Perfect Mind.
This is a revelation discourse imparted by a female figure who
seems to personify the idea of Sophia, or wisdom.
. . . For 1am thefirst and the last.
1am thehonoured oneand thescorned one.
1am thewhore and theholyone.
1am thewifeand the virgin.
1am the mother and thedaughter.
1am the members of my mother.
1am the barren one
and manyarehersons.
1am shewhose wedding isgreat,
and l haoe not taken a husband.
1am the midwife andshewhodoes not bear.
I am thesolace of my labour pains.
I am thebride and thebridgroom
and it is my husband whobegot me.
I am the mother of myfather
and thesisterof myhusband,
And he is my offspring. 108
For some months Ihad occasion to work with a highly intelligent
woman whose sun and ascendant are both in Virgo. In her birth
216
The Astrology ofFate
horoscope she also has a conjunction of moon, Saturn and Uranus
in Gemini in the tenth house, which deals with the experience of
mother. From this mother, my analysand, whom Ishall callSusan,
had learned that the great 'they' ruled in earth and in heaven, and
that the codes of conventional morality could not be broken
without severe retribution. The mother herself - as suggested by
the powerful and contradictory tenth house conjunction - had
considerable ambivalence about the issue of conformity, and, on a
deeper level, about the 'role' of being a woman to begin with.
Susan likewise felt this ambivalence, but was very unconscious of
it, apparently wanting, when I first met her, nothing more than a
husband, a home and children, and unchanging safety for the rest
of her life. Unfortunately she kept falling in love with married or
homosexual men who were ultimately unable to provide what she
sought. Although she is an attractive and charming woman, she
seemed to place no value on her own body, literally throwing
herself into the arms of anyone who showed her a little affection;
she was therefore a whore in the more negative sense, in that she
derived no pleasure from these encounters, but felt they were
'expected' and the necessary price for 'catching' a husband. After
several years of this sad and self-destructive behaviour, she had
faJlen in love once again with a married man, but this new lover
showed signs of deep attachment and was preparing to leave his
wife in order to offer her a more permanent relationship. This, far
from delighting Susan, promptly filled her with feelings of great
anxiety. She was also plagued by guilt, because breaking up a
man's marriage seemed to her an unforgivable sin.
I will not elaborate on the parental implications of Susan's
penchant for triangles, nor on the lack of reflection on her own
contradictions which was so characteristic of her. She brought me
the following dream after about two months of work:
Iam going to train as a prostitute. Iarrive at the school where all
the women are to learn sexual arts. The front of this place is a
sort of shop, where a pleasant man is in charge. I feel strangely
happy about this place, but I explain to the man that I am afraid
of receiving a repulsive man as my first customer. He tells me I
do not have to have sex with anyone I do not want. I must also
choose a pair of earrings from a display in the window. Most of
them are very ornate, but I select a pair of simple gold rings.
This dream seems to herald a kind of initiation. The guilt which
Susan experienced was connected with her strong erotic attach-
ment to her father, which was made intolerable not only because of
the mother's jealous criticism but also because her identification
with the mother - reflected by the tenth house moon - led her to
Myth and the Zodiac
217
assume the same collective morality. The new relationship had
awakened these erotic feelings, which had remained completely
suppressed despite a long chain of lovers. The fact that she had
found a man she herself wanted, rather than a man whom she
imagined might want her, had propelled her into a crisis. The
dream foreshadowed the beginning of an increased awareness of
her own body as possessing valid laws and desires of its own,
rather than as an object which could be offered in exchange forlove
and security . Susan's initiation into the shop which is the modern
symbol of the ancient temple leads her to the experience of the
goddess, who claims the first lover as an affirmation of the femin-
ine before the woman can become bound to a husband. Here the
animus is the initiator, disguised as the shop proprietor, and he
affirms her right to follow the commands of her own nature. She
need only mate with those whom she herself desires. The gold
earrings suggest not only wedding rings - once again implying a
paradox - but also her own wholeness, her Self. The dream
therefore suggests that this encounter with the mythic whore in
herself, constellated by her new relationship, marks the beginning
of Susan's individual development. This kind of dream is not
uncommon in women of any sign who have faced the kind of
maternal problems Susan has experienced. But I have quoted the
dream here because it embodies so much of the 'fate' of Virgo.
The issue of bestowing one's gifts or one's bounty as one wishes,
according to inner laws, rather than satisfying expectations to gain
rewards, seems fundamental to the mythic figure of the Virgin.
Esther Harding, in her book Women's Mysteries, writes about the
virgin goddess:
The chief characteristic of the goddess in her crescent phase is
that she is virgin. Her instinct is not used to capture or possess
the man whom she attracts. She does not reserve herself for the
chosen man who must repay her by his devotion, nor is her
instinct used to gain for herself the security of husband, home
and family. She remains virgin, even while being the goddess of
love. She is essentially one-in-herself . . . Her divine power does
not depend on her relation to a husband-god, and thus her
actions are not dependent on the need to conciliatesuch a one or
to accord with his qualities and attitudes. For she bears her
divinity in her own right. 109
Human beings are not goddesses, and this description of a
numinous mythic image is not likely to be attainable, save as an
inner experience at rare moments oflife. ButIfeelthat Virgostrives
towards this state, and external events often conspire to help
create it. Sometimes the partner cannot provide the security that is
218
The Astrology of Fate
hoped for, or a period of lifemust be spent alone. These apparently
'fated' happenings point towards an inner need to live from one's
own values rather than from the values of others. The mythic
virgin does not preclude relationship; but if Virgo tries to avoid the
responsibility of her own nature, these relationships have a ten-
dency to be at best dissatisfying, and at worst catastrophic.
It may well be asked how the powerful image of the virgin
goddess who is also a harlot can apply to a man in whom the sign
Virgo is prominent. But just as the masculine figures whom we
have met are equally relevant to women, the female figure of
Astraea can equally symbolise inner integrity for a man. The
Virgoan man too may for a period of his life have to struggle with
collective expectations and the serene security of doing what is
acceptable, and his values may equally be those of society at the
beginning of his adult life. Virgos of both sexes are often caught in
the dilemma of having to choose between the safe, well-paid and
ultimately barren path of external compliance and the fertile but
often lonely path of inner loyalty. Virto is a singular mythic figure;
she rules, as Harding says, in her own right, and this leaves her
essentially alone, for her truths must ultimately be her own. Greta
Garbo, one of our more famous Virgoans, seems to have given
voice to this in a very literal way. Sometimes this aloneness is
forced upon Virgo for a time, so that in the silence of one's own
company the inner voice can be heard. Loneliness and aloneness
are, of course, not the same; for one may have deep com-
panionship and remain in touch with one's essential differentness.
I would now like to focus more closely on the Demeter-
Persephone pair, for these two figures, mother and daughter, are
closely connected to Virgo. As Leo is a father-son tale, Virgo can
also be a tale of mother and daughter. Although the Virgo man
may experience these figures through the anima and the women in
his life, the myth is no less relevant. Demeter and Persephone form
a unity, the paradox of woman as maiden and mother. lung says
the following about this paradox:
Demeter and Kore, mother and daughter, extend the feminine
consciousness both upwards and downwards. They add an
'older and younger', 'stronger and weaker', dimension to it and
widen out the narrowly limited conscious mind bound in space
and time, giving it intimations of a greater and more com-
prehensive personality which has a share in the eternal course of
things . . . We could therefore say that every mother contains her
daughter in herself and every daughter her mother, and that
every woman extends backwards into her mother and forwards
into her daughter . . . The conscious experience of these ties
Myth and the Zodiac
219
produces the feeling that her lifeisspread out over generations-
the first step towards the immediate experience and conviction
of beinl?> outside time, which brings with it a feeling of immor-
tality.!
The sense of immortality of which Jung writes seems to me to
belong to 'ordinary' life, rather than to the transcendant realm of
the masculine spirit. It is the immortality of nature, the 'rightness'
of daily routine. This mystery of mother and daughter offers
another dimension to Virgo's ritualism, whose roots lie in the
profound experience of each moment of life being a fresh beginn-
ing which emerges out of a preceding cycleand generates the next
cycle.
Jung wrote in his essay on the kore that the maiden must always
be sacrificed, so that she may become a mother. This is her 'fate'.
We need not take this literally, for many women do not become
literal mothers, and neither do men. Butifmothering in the deeper
sense is about the nurturing of potentials and the bringing to birth
of the inner pattern in outer life, then this mythic theme does
indeed apply to the Virgo of both sexes, who is generally com-
pelled by his daimon to manifest his talents and gifts in an outward-
ly expressive and concrete way. But if these inner potentials are to
be expressed in form, then the maiden must die, because the hope
of perfection disappears with any physical creation . I suspect that
the fascination which many men have with virginity (witness the
number of films which deal with the seduction and deflowering of
a young girl, not to mention the deep-rooted collectiveexpectation
that a woman must go to her bridal bed untouched by any save her
spouse) has its roots in this myth. Soiled goods offend Virgo, yet
the goods must be soiled if life is to be lived. The anima-figure
which most closely approximates this fantasy of perfection in
Western consciousness is that of Mary, who embodies the self-
containment and sacredness of the unstained soul. Mary remains
miraculously virgin even after the birth of Jesus, and this reflects
the ever-renewing qualities of the virgin goddess who may be
harlot and mother yet who retains her essential intactness within.
I have said nothing of Hermes-Mercury, who is the planetary
ruler of Virgo, in part because we have already met him in Gemini
and many of his attributes belong to Virgoas well. But Ihave never
been comfortable with Mercury as the sole description of the
complex web of character that lies in Virgo. Perhaps there is
another planet waiting to be found which might bea co-ruler; or
perhaps not. Hermes may sometimes be seen in feminine form in
alchemical texts, where he/she is shown as a mermaid or melusine
with a fish's tail. This fish-tailed lunar Hermes is the ancient image
220
TheAstrology of Fate
of the Syrian goddess Atargatis, who is herself half fish and whom
Frances Yates felt had the closest affinity to Virgo. In his feminine
form, the Mercurius of the alchemists is the virgin mother, the
womb of matter which will bring forth the divine son - who is also
Mercurius, in his masculine form. If we are to be content with
Mercury as the planetary ruler of Virgo, then we must extend our
understanding of him into this paradoxical lunar dimension. For
lunar it is, and despite the expressiveness, cleverness, dexterity
and shrewdness which are Hermes' gifts to Virgo as well as to
Gemini, the figure of the virgin goddess looms behind all in her
unfathomable mystery.
LIBRA
His greatness weigh'd, hiswill is nothisown,
For hehimself is subject tohis birth;
Hemaynot, as unvalu'd persons do,
Cartefor himself, for on hischoice depends
Thesafety andthehealth ofthewhole state.
Shakespeare, Hamlet
Libra is the only sign of the zodiac which is represented by an
inanimate object. This may sound insulting, but it suggests to me
that as we arrive at the point of equilibrium reflected in the
autumnal equinox, we meet something which is very far removed
from the instinctual kingdom. Libra has a highly confusing early
mythology, and this is perhaps fitting, because the faculties of
judgement, reflection and choice which seem to be so basic a
feature of the sign are the fruit of conscious effort and not 'natural'.
The name Libra itself, which means the Balance, does not seem to
have occurred before the second century BC. This has led some
writers to believe that the sign did not even exist as a separate
entity in early astrology. Instead, the Scorpion was double the size
of the present constellation, and encompassed two distinct facets
or aspects. The part of the heavens which is now called Libra was
originally known as Chelae, the Scorpion's Claws. This is very
suggestive: that the scales of balanced judgement should have
developed from what was originally the gripping organ of the dark
underworld creature which has always represented the chthonic
realm. It is as though our noble faculty of judgement emerged from
something much older, more archaic and more primitive, and
evolved over time into what we now understand as objective or
impartial assessment.
Although Libra the Balance is almost 'new'. however, images of
judgement in myth are far older. The Egyptians used the scales as a
symbol of the judgement of the souls of the dead by Osiris in the
Myth and the Zodiac
221
underworld, and the myth of this rite of passage is perhaps
relevant to our understanding of Libra. It does seem that the
Egyptians knew the Balance, although the Babylonians did not;
and the Chelae was sometimes portrayed as a scale-beam. An even
stranger image comes to us from Babylon:the claws of the scorpion
are shown holding the Lamp of Illumination. Amidst these confus-
ing images of what we now know as Libra, it seems that a single
figure begins to emerge: a goddess of justice, a sort of civilised
Moira, who has acquired something more refined than the dark
and bloody instinct for vengeance. This goddess judges according
to human law and morality, however, unlike Astraea who is more
of a representation of the orderly pattern of nature. Judgement in
the Libran sense rests upon careful assessment and reflection,
before any sentence is given.
In Egyptian ritual, when the soul of the deceased had safely
crossed the country between the land of the living and the
kingdom of the dead, he was ushered into the presence of Osiris by
Anubis, the Egyptian form of Hermes Psychopompos, guide of
souls. In the centre of the hall of judgement was erected a vast
scale, beside which stood Maat, the goddess of truth, ready to
weigh
the heart of the deceased. Meanwhile, the monster
Amemait, whose name means 'the devourer' - a species of early
Erinyes, part lion, part hippopotamus, part crocodile - crouched
waiting to eat the hearts of the guilty. Forty-two personages sat
around the hall in their winding-sheets; some had human heads,
some the heads of animals. To each of these assessors the soul of
the deceased had to proclaim his 'negative confession' - that is, a
list of all the bad things he did not do. After this came the weighing
of the soul. In one of the pans of the balance Anubis placed Maat
herself, or else the feather of truth which was her symbol. In the
other pan, he put the heart of the deceased. Ifthe two pans were in
equilibrium, and therefore if the man's sins did not outweigh the
feather of Maat, then the divine judges passed a favourable
verdict.
Maat, like the Greek Athene whom I also associate with Libra,
seems to have personified law, truth and social order. She is
definitely a thinking, civilised Moira, an emergence of something
reflective out of the natural eye-fer-an-eye vindictiveness of the
Scorpion's Claws. Maat's law is not that of the Mother, but that of
the ethical and moral codes of society. The forty-two judges in the
hall of the dead represented the forty-two 'nomes' or provinces of
Egypt, and the individual's sins were very much related to his
conduct in society. We have met Athene in this role already, in the
story of Orestes; her human court, which votes on the young
prince's fate, is something 'new', something different from the
222
The Astrology of Fate
bickering and angry gods. It is as though myth is here suggesting
that in this eminently human although 'unnatural' faculty of
rational judgement lies a potential resolution for, or point of
equilibrium between, the collisions and conflicts within the uncon-
scious psyche which the Greeks so loved to represent as quarrel-
ling deities and family curses. The goddess Astraea also possesses
something of this quality ofdiscriminatingjudgement, although as
we have seen it lies in a different sphere; but it is my experience
that both Virgo and Libra share a similar sense of outrage at the
breaking of the rules. But Libra seems to project this vision of
justice out into life in a heightened way. It forms the basis of the
sign's intense idealism and beliefin the fairness oflife. Ihave never
felt that Libra was concerned, as some popular descriptions would
tell us, with romantic love, flowers and candlelight, except as an
abstract concern with the appropriate rituals of courtship accord-
ing to an ideal conception. Romantic 'feeling' is not a property of
Libra. The sign is much more connected with questions of ethics
and morality, judgement and apportionment. This theme of mora-
lity is one which I have encountered many times in the lives of
Librans, for there is that within the sign which longs for the
verification of this deity who holds the perfectly balanced scales of
judgement; and in order to achieve such an experience, imbalance
and extremes and the violation of the law are necessary happen-
ings from which Libra does not readily escape.
The mythic image of Osiris judging the souls of the dead is a
portrayal of the gods' judgement on man, and implies the exist-
ence of universal principles of right and wrong by which human
lifemust be lived. These principles are not 'natural' in that they are
not the laws of the kingdom of nature. But they belong to the realm
of the human spirit and its vision of perfection. There are two
mythic tales I would now like to explore where it is man's judge-
ment of the gods which is the primary theme, and these myths
have, I feel, bearing on the patterns which shape Libra's develop-
ment. In these stories, a human being is called upon to decide an
issue about which the gods are quarrelling, much as the human
jury of Athens must pronounce judgement between Apollo and
the Erinyes. The trouble which ensues after such a judgement is
also a relevant theme in the myths, and implies that judging the
gods is not a simple issue, nor one without its consequences. In the
figure of Osiris and the scales of Maat we can see a vision which is
dear to the heart of Libra: The cosmos is ultimately just and fair,
and good is rewarded and evil punished. There is no sign so
oriented towards the 'good, true and beautiful' as Plato puts it,
although how that good is defined depends, in the end, upon the
individual's definition of it. Libra, however, does not see it as an
Myth and the Zodiac
223
individual issue, but rather one of finding the universal ethics
which transcend mere human choice.
But in the stories of Paris and Teiresias we find two humans
who, because of their superior experience and perception, are
called upon to do something which the gods themselves cannot
do. Thus the vision of a just cosmos is something that the human
spirit can contribute to life, and to the gods, rather than the other
way around. Both Paris and Teiresias suffer consequences which
strike me as typical of the kind of entanglements into which
Librans have a tendency to stumble. Forthe business ofjudging, as
these stories suggest, is a hazardous occupation because the gods
themselves will not play by the rules.
Paris was the son of King Priam and Queen Hekabe of Troy. An
oracle or dream had warned his mother that he would grow up to
be the ruin of his country. Therefore the infant was exposed on
Mount Ida, where he was saved and suckled by a she-bear. Buthis
royal birth was eventually recognised by the outstanding beauty,
intelligence and strength of the young prince. Because of his
prowess with women and his superior powers ofjudgement, Zeus
chose him to arbitrate between three quarrelling Olympian god-
desses. The young man was herding his cattle one day when
Hermes, accompanied by Hera, Athene and Aphrodite, appeared
before him. Hermes handed him a golden apple, and delivered
Zeus' message: 'Paris, since you are as handsome as you are wise
in affairs of the heart, Zeus commands you to judge which of these
goddesses is the fairest, and to award to the winner the golden
apple.'
Since Paris was no fool, he understandably baulked at this
request, knowing fullwell that whatever he did he would incur the
anger of two of the deities. So, like a good Libran, he offered
gallantly to divide the apple equally among the three. Zeus,
however, would have none of this evasion, and demanded that the
young man choose. Paris then begged all the goddesses not to be
vexed with him should they lose; for the task had been foisted
upon him against his wishes, and was none of his choosing. All
three promised not to seek revenge should they lose the contest.
The goddesses were then asked to disrobe. Athene insisted that
Aphrodite remove her famous girdle, which made everyone fallin
love with her and gave her an unfair advantage. Aphrodite
insisted that Athene remove her battle helmet, which made her
look more noble and distinguished. Hera did not stoop to such
tactics, but merely removedherclothes withthedignity befitting a
Queen of the gods.
Here then offered Paris the rulership ofall Asia, and promised to
make him the richest man alive if he chose her. Paris, being a
224
The Astrology of Fate
typical Libran, was not especially attracted by the responsibilities
of such enormous wealth and power. Athene then promised that
she would make him victorious in all his battles, but since this is a
Libran myth and not an Arien one, that too held no appeal for him.
Aphrodite, being herself by far the best judge of what motivated
Paris, promised him the most beautiful woman in the world to be
his wife. This was Helen, the daughter of Zeus by Leda and the
wife of King Menelaos of Mykenai. Paris objected that Helen was
already married; how then could she be his wife? Leave it to me,
said Aphrodite, and Paris awarded her the golden apple without a
second thought. Bythis judgement he incurred the hatred of both
Hera and Athene, who, reneging on their own promises to be good
losers, went off arm in arm to plot the destruction of Troy. When
Paris eventually met Helen at her husband's court, the two fell
instantly in love, and during the King's absence eloped together
and fled to Troy. This incident provoked the Greeks to avenge the
insult, and provided them with the excuse to do what they had
always wanted to do: burn Troy to the ground. During this war,
not only Paris but his three sons by Helen were slaughtered, but
Helen, being semi-divine and blameless as Aphrodite's pawn, was
returned repentant to her husband.
Thus Paris, one of the most Libran of mythic heroes, was
confronted with the necessity of making a judgement - one of
personal values and ethical choice - to which he responded in a
characteristic way. That he came to a bad end does not imply that
this is the concrete fate of Libra, although sometimes Libra's
choices in love do lead to considerable confusion and difficulty. I
have seen enough of the typical love-triangles of Libra, where such
choices are thrust upon the individual to draw him into some fairly
strenuous emotional dilemmas (and sometimes financial ones as
well), to be convinced that in this myth lies a typical development
pattern for the sign.
Teiresias, on the other hand, is a rather different kind of char-
acter. When we meet him in the tale of Oidipus, he is a blind seer,
renowned for his insight and judgement. It is he who warns
Oidipus that the accursed thing which has polluted Thebes is the
king himself. But the story of Teiresias' blindness is an interesting
one. There are several versions of this tale, and in one of them,
Teiresias, like Paris, was called upon to judge who was the most
beautiful among four goddesses: Aphrodite and the three Graces.
Byawarding the prize to one of the Graces, he incurred the wrath
of the goddess of love, who turned him into an old woman. But the
best known version of the Teiresias myth begins when he was once
wandering on Mount Kyllene.There he saw two serpents in the act
of coupling. When both attacked him, he struck them with his
Myth and theZodiac
225
staff, killing the female. Immediately he was turned into a woman,
and spent several years as a celebrated harlot. Seven years later he
hapened to see the same scene at the same spot, and this time
regained his manhood by killing the male serpent. Because of his
unusual experience of both sexes, Zeus then called upon him to
decide a judgement between himself and Hera. These two had
been quarrelling, as was their wont, about Zeus' infidelities to his
wife, and the god had defended himself by arguing that when he
did share his wife's bed she had the better time because women
derived more pleasure from the sexual act. Hera denied this,
insisting that the truth was to the contrary, for why else should her
husband be so flagrantly promiscuous? Teiresias, summoned to
settle the dispute, replied:
If theparts oflove-pleasure becounted as ten,
Thrice three go to women, oneonly to men.111
Hera was so exasperated by this response that she struck Teiresias
blind. But Zeus took pity on him since he had, after all, taken the
side of the god; so he was granted inner sight and the ability to
understand the prophetic language of the birds. He was also given
a life-span which lasted for seven generations and was permitted
to keep his gift of insight even in the dark fields of the underworld.
Both Paris and Teiresias have forced upon them the necessity of
making a judgement. This necessity springs from the gods them-
selves, who are, apparently, in dispute. In the case of Paris, the
nature of the choice is not difficult to discern, for this is not really a
beauty contest but rather a decision about what is ultimately of
most value to him. Jane Harrison writes about the judgement of
Paris:
It is an anguish of hesitancy ending in a choice which precipi-
tates the greatest tragedy of Greek legend . But before Paris was
there the Choice was there. The exact elements of the Choice
vary in different versions. Athene is sometimes Wisdom and
sometimes War. But in general Hera is Royalty or Grandeur;
Athene is Prowess; Aphrodite of course is Love. And what
exactly has the 'young man' to decide? Which of the three is
fairest? Or whose gifts he desires the most? It matters not at all,
for both are different ways of saying the same thing.112
It would seem that, by the fiat of Zeus, Paris may not have all
three, and that too suggests something about the 'fate' of Libra. He
cannot have his cake and eat it too. We could as easily substitute a
woman for Paris, and three male deities as the contestants. One
might speculate fruitfully on what then would be the elements of
Choice. Might one favour Zeus with his gift of power, or Dionysos
226
The Astrology of Fate
with his gift of ecstasy, or Apollo with his gift of long sight? Or
perhaps Ares for his courage, or Hermes for his cleverness, or
Hephaistos for his artistic skills? This myth does not describe an
exclusively masculine problem. It is perhaps relevant that it is
among the attributes of the goddesses - the anima or soul - that
Paris must choose; he is not called upon to select masculine goals
which he favours, but those which pertain to his deepest inner
values. But the choosing of one thing over another, which life
seems to force upon Libra, not only contradicts the sign's innate
desire for having everything in proportion rather than one thing at
the expense of another. Such a judgement also involves psycho-
logical consequences, for any decision of an ethical kind made by
the ego means the exclusion or repression of some other content of
the psyche, which produces enormous ambivalence and some-
times great suffering. Ibelieve that Libra's famous 'indecisiveness'
does not stem from any congenital inability to make choices, but
from the fear of the consequences those choices willentail. It might
be argued that Paris made the wrong choice. But whichever
goddess he had selected, the other two would have been angry;
and had he refused to choose at all, then Zeus would have struck
him down.
It is not surprising that Libra perpetually complains about the
unfairness of life. So it is; poor Paris did not ask for his fate, and
tried his best to avoid it by an equal division of the apple. But he is
chosen from the beginning because of his superior experience and
insight, and this implies that we must pay for our gifts and
accomplishments. Perhaps life is just after all. It would seem that
the development of Libra encompasses a curious paradox: that the
sign is in love with the orderly laws of lifeand places great faith in
their fairness, yet is perpetually confronted by the disorderly and
immoral aspects of life, which fragment and divide Libra's cher-
ished unity. Yet in these apparently unfair vicissitudes the foot-
prints of a deeper and more ironic order may be tracked. Libra's
propensity to get stuck in a choice between two women, or two
men, or two vocations, or two philosophies, suggests that while the
sign cannot bear division or disharmony in the universe, some-
thing within the Libran himself forever drives him to divide
himself, so that he can discover himself through the deepening
knowledge of the processes of choice.
Teiresias came to a better end than Paris, although he too had to
suffer for his judgement. But there are compensations. His story is
a strange one. Its beginning, with the vision of the two serpents
coupling, suggests a kind of archetypal perception of the origins of
life. We met the uroboros, the serpent which devours, slays and
begets itself, in ~he sign Cancer, and the uroboros in alchemy is
Myth and the Zodiac
227
often imaged as a pair of serpents or dragons forming the circle of
unity. Teiresias has evidently spied upon a deep mystery, for these
snakes are the World Serpent, male and female together. Thus they
attack him, for he has no business seeing what he has seen. It is like
the mythicattack of Artemis upon Actaeon, who accidentally stum-
bled upon her bathing: Nature is jealous of her secrets. Libra's cool
intellect undoubtedly spies where it is not 'permitted' to go, especi-
ally in the sphere of love, and love often turns and attacks the
Libran for his disinterested judgement. In defence, Teiresias kills
the female serpent - thus perhaps attempting to protect himself
from the instinctual side of life. In doing so, he sacrifices his own
manhood. That is perhaps an image of the price paid for this stage
of the journey, for the distinctive repression of and distaste for the
body and the fleshly odours of life which isso characteristicof Libra
can result in a loss of self and a sellingof the soul. Buteventually the
future prophet experiences once again his vision of the origins of
life, and on this second occasion defends himself against the over-
riding patriarchal principle which has previously made him an
enemy of his own sexuality. Thus he is restored to himself. This
seesaw between male and female, spirit and body, seems typical of
both the Libran man and the Libran woman. So, too, does the sym-
bolic experience of the opposite sex, where one is estranged from
one's own biology and is possessed by the trans-sexual uncon-
scious. Libran men are traditionally known for their affinity with
the 'feminine' sphere of adornment, ornamentation and beautifi-
cation, while Libran women are known for their clear rational
thinking and organisingcapacities. This myth ofTeiresias suggests
that the often ambivalent sexuality of Libra has archetypal roots.
It is as a result of the wisdom which Teiresias gained that he was
honoured by Zeus to solve the Olympian marital squabble. This is
like the judgement of Paris: a mortal is asked to provide what the
gods themselves do not possess, the capacity to reflect upon the
opposites with unbiased judgement. Teiresias suffers for his judge-
ment, but had he sided with Hera, no doubt Zeus would have
punished him instead. Like Paris, and strangely like Job in the Old
Testament, Teiresias was made to pay for his too great insight into
the nature of the gods themselves. But the old prophet was given a
gift in exchange, and the image of blindness in myth is often a
portrayal of the eyes turned inward towards the Self. Thus he can
no longer be seduced by worldly beauty, as Paris was. Wotan in
Teutonic myth also offered up one of his eyes in exchange for
knowledge. The prophet's long life and position of honour in the
underworld suggest that something eternal remains beyond the
mortal span of the wisdom for which he had to pay such a high
price.
228
The Astrology ofFate
Iam inclined to feel that Paris is an image for the youthful Libran,
Teiresias for the mature one. Somehow this issue of choice pro-
gresses from the necessity of deciding where one's values lie, and
the ensuing conflicts, into glimpses of the deeper dilemmas where
the gods themselves are revealed as double-faced and needing the
help of man's consciousness. Through this insight both man and
gods are changed. This is the theme to which Jung addressed
Answer to Job, and I believe it is one of the underlying themes in
Libra's fate. Not least of all the possible lessons inherent in the
stories of Paris, Teiresias and even Job is the realisation that the
gods may not be as just as man. If Libra can ultimately accept this,
then his role as a bringer of civilisation and reflection becomes a
genuine one, and dignifies the nobility of the human spirit.
SCORPIO
Here we mIly reign secure, andin mychoice
To reign is worth ambition though in hell:
Better to reign in hell, than serve in heav'n.
Milton, Paradise Lost
We have met in preceding chapters the realm of the archaic Mother
whose theriomorphic images are the spider, the snake and the
dragon. These cold-blooded creatures, far distant from the wann
mammalian kingdoms of which man is a part, are images of the
autonomous unconscious functions of the body: the snake as intes-
tinal process, the whale and sea monster as womb, the root
chakra at the base of the spine which is the seat oflife. Allthe myths
which we have explored in relation to Pluto are relevant to Scorpio,
for in the grim figures of the Lord or Lady of the Great Place Below
are imaged the presiding daimones of this zodiacal sign. We have
also looked at the constellation of the Scorpion in relation to Orion
the hunter, who offended the goddess Artemis-Hekate and was
destroyed by her giant scorpion sent from the depths.
There are other mythic images which I feel are relevant to this
sign, and these circlearound the archetypal theme of the hero and
the dragon.Just as the ram, the lion, the crab and the hostile sibling
are differing aspects of the hero's quest, the dragon is a distinct
entity, a relative of the World Serpent, and a representation of the
daemonic forces of the unconscious experienced as Terrible
Mother. Creatures such as the Erinyes are aspects ofher, but one of
her most common faces is the serpentine monster. The dragon
fight is a universal motif, but it is particularly relevant to Scorpio,
who must confront in perhaps greater depth and more frequently
this reptilian face of instinctual life with its terrifying and destruc-
tive power. One classic myth of this kind is that of Herakles' battle
Myth and the ZodiJzc
229
with the Hydra. Another example isSiegfried's confrontation with
the dragon Fafner who guards the Niebelung hoard. Perhaps we
must all deal with this dragon at some time in our lives; but for
Scorpio, there is a kind of cyclical collision, a permament and
increasingly profound confrontation with the dragon's realm.
Another vivid image of the battle with the dark forces is
portrayed in the story of Perseus and the Gorgon. Like all proper
heroes, Perseus had a magical birth. His father was Zeus, he was
endangered in infancy by a wicked male relative, and he grew up
ignorant of his true parentage. He had many adventures, not all of
which concern us here, but his confrontation with Medusa is an
archetypal Scorpio motif. Medusa herself is part of Scorpio's
journey, for as with all myths, hero and monster form a unity, two
aspects of a whole. As the story goes, Medusa was once a beautiful
woman, who happened to offend the goddess Athene:
The Gorgons were named Stheino, Euryale, and Medusa, aU
once beautiful. But one night Medusa lay with Poseidon, and
Athene, enraged that they had bedded in one of her own
temples, changed her into a winged monster with glaring eyes,
huge teeth, protruding tongue, brazen claws and serpent locks,
whose gaze turned men to stone.113
Another version of this story tells that Medusa was raped by
Poseidon, and that the terrifying visage which froze on her face
was the expression of her horror and outrage. Either way, we are
back to the familiar Scorpionic themes of rape and offended
sexuality. Whether Medusa's horrific ugliness was the result of an
outraged Athene or an outraged feminine spirit, they are in many
ways the same thing, for Athene, the virgin goddess who is Zeus'
wisdom, is an image of judgement against uncivilised behaviour.
Medusa's face is a portrait of feminine anger and hatred, and her
effect upon anyone who happens to look her way is paralysis. As a
psychological picture, this is an exceedingly pointed one, for this
enduring hatred towards life and the bitterness which leads to
inner apathy are both problems which many Scorpios must sooner
or later face.
Perseus was given the task ofslaying Medusa in order to prevent
his mother being forcibly married to King Polydectes. Here is the
motif of redeeming one feminine figure by conquering another,
darker one; but both, in essence, are Mother. The personal mother
can only be redeemed if the archetypal one isconfronted. Often, in
a man, the inheritance of the mother's unconscious rage and
bitterness taints his own innersoul, so that he carries her hatred for
her; then the issue of redeeming not only the personal mother but
his own anima from the grip of the Gorgon becomes a criticalone.
230
The Astrology of Fate
This battle to free the feminine from the blacker face of nature is an
integral part of the journey for both Scorpio men and women.
Perseus was helped on his quest by several deities. Athene
warned him never to look at Medusa directly, but only at her
mirrored reflection, and presented him with a brightly polished
shield. As a symbolic image this is fairly self-explanatory; the
capacity for reflection, for symbolic thinking, is fundamental in
coping with the overwhelming rage of a Medusa. Hermes also
helped Perseus, giving him an adamantine sicklewith which to cut
off the Gorgon's head. He also acquired a pair of winged sandals, a
magic wallet to contain the decapitated head, and a dark helmet of
invisibility contributed by Hades. All these magical implements
could only be obtained through a visit to the three old Graiai, who
had a single eye and tooth between them, and who knew the secret
path to the Gorgon's lair. They are really another form of the three
Fates, the Moirai. Thus, fate must be with him - as the alchemists
would have said, Deo concedente. Naturally the hero succeeded in
his quest, with all those divine powers on his side. He released, as
a sort of by-product, the magical steed Pegasus, which sprang full
grown from Medusa's body. This horse was fathered on her by
Poseidon, but she was unable to give birth to it because of her
hatred. Thus Perseus released her, as well as himself. The winged
horse is a bridge between opposites, an earthy creature which has
the power to ascend into the spiritual realm. Perseus was then able
to use the Gorgon's head against his enemies, for having con-
quered the creature himself, he was in a position to utilise its
powerful properties on behalf of more consciousness-directed
goals.
The Gorgon, and the Hydra which Herakles must meet, are, it
seems to me, characteristic images of the destructiveness which it
is Scorpio's task to deal with. Medusa can only be beheaded
through the powerof the reflected image, for to stare directly at her
is to be overwhelmed by one's own darkness. This is a psychotic
state, and the blind terror and paralysis which one meets in certain
forms of psychosis can find no better symbol than the Gorgon's
head. The Hydra too has a particular formula by which it can be
conquered, for like Medusa it is a semi-divine being, and like her
when she brings forth the winged horse, the object is a trans-
formation rather than a riddance or a repression.
The Hydra, according to Graves' description, had a prodigious
dog-like body, and nine snaky heads, one of them immortal. It was
so venomous that its very breath, or the smell of its tracks, could
destroy life. This attractive creature is one known to many Scor-
pios. Herakles first had to force it to emerge from its dark cave with
burning arrows, and then held his breath when he caught hold of
Myth and the Zodiac
231
it. But the monster almost overcame him, because no sooner was
one head crushed than two or three more grew in its place. The
hero shouted to his charioteer Iolaus to set one comer of the grove
alight. Then, to prevent the Hydra from sprouting new heads, he
seared the roots with blazing branches. Thus the flow of blood was
checked - cauterised - and Herakles used a sword to sever the
immortal head, part of which was gold, and buried it, still hissing,
under a heavy rock.
These two dragon fights - Perseus with the Gorgon and Hera-
kles with the Hydra - embody a wisdom about the preparation and
handling of the reptilian poison which one finds if one digs deep
enough. Neither monster can be conquered by brute force alone.
Reflection is necessary, and fire - whether we take this as the
burning of intense emotion held within, or as the light of insight
and consciousness. Both creatures are divine, and cannot ulti-
mately be destroyed, although they may transform. Whether these
monsters describe the emotional darkness with which so many
Scorpios must contend, or whether they are projected outwards
into the world and are seen as the world's evil and suffering which
must be purged, Scorpio's daimon drives him into collision with all
that is terrifying, dark and destructive in life. Many Scorpios have
contributed their resources to battling with the monster in society:
Martin Luther (sun in Scorpio), Gandhi (Scorpio rising) and Freud
(Scorpio rising) are but a few who have taken the dragon fight to a
level which has generated changes in society and culture. But the
most profound expression of this battle iswithin the individual, for
Medusa and the Hydra are met in the dirty alleyways and swamps
of one's own soul. They do not remain buried, but rise up and
challenge the individual not once but many times during the
course of life; and each occurence potentially yields new fruit.
There is a subtler form of dragon than these which Scorpio may
meet, and this is embodied in the myth of Faust. Here, as with
Parsifal, we enter the world of medieval legend, but the figure of
the magician and his struggle with his dark double, the serpentine
Mephistopheles, is an ancient tale. Mephistopheles himself is a
true son of the Mother, 'that power that wills forever evil yet does
forever good'. The story of Faust's lust for power and pleasure, his
corruption and his eventual redemption, has spawned operas,
novels, plays and dreams over the ages, for although we have
more difficulty these days in believing in such creatures as
Gorgons and Hydras, Mephistopheles is only just around the
comer. The myth of the magus is a tale about the man or woman
who, from bitterness, loneliness and isolation from his fellows, is
willing to barter his soul for power over all those things in life
which have injured him. Thus he acquires magical powers, but his
232
The Astrology of Fate
soul is no longer his own, and he is doomed to eternal damnation.
His devilish double now dogs him everywhere, and destroys any
pleasure the power might have granted. In the end, everything he
touches is blighted. Yet he is heroic, like Lucifer in Paradise Lost
(Milton also had Scorpio rising), for he has dared to traffic in
realms where the ordinary 'good' person would not have the
strength to enter. And he still retains something worth saving
which God wants. Hence, at the end of Goethe's great poem, he is
redeemed.
'Mass here, mass there,' said Dr Faust. 'My pledge binds me
absolutely. I have wantonly despised God and become perjured
and faithless toward Him, and believed and trusted more in the
devil than in Him. Therefore Ican neither come to Him again nor
obtain any comfort from His grace which I have forfeited.
Besides, it would not be honest nor would it redound to my
honour to have it said that I had violated my bond and seal,
which I have made with my own blood. The devil has honestly
kept the promise that he made to me, therefore I will honestly
keep the pledge that I made and contracted with him.'114
Thus, according to medieval biography (which is more like
biographical fiction) spoke the real Dr Faust, a shadowy and
unimpressive figure who lost his life in a demonstration of flying
and who harks back to the tradition of the sorcererSimon Magus of
Acts viii. Marlowe stayed close to the legend of the corrupt and
foolish Dr Faustus in his drama, but Goethe, who had Scorpio
rising and saw into it more deeply, turned it into a statement of the
soul's journey through darkness to God. Goethe focused upon
Faust's egotism and restless groping for power as his great flaw,
but he infused into his character all the tarnished greatness of the
fallen angel Lucifer. This egotism opens the door to Mephisto-
pheles, the spirit of negation. Rather than being too hot and
inflamed with passion, this reptilian devil is cold, so cold that he
withers all that is youthful and innocent. In the introduction to his
translation of Faust, Philip Wayne writes:
It is perhaps an easy saying, but it has its depth, that cynicism is
the only sin. This devil of Goethe's must be known to be
appreciated. He is the world's most convincing portrait ofSatan,
and cynicism, scoffing, negation, is the keynote of his intellec-
tuality . .. He is more modem than yesterday. Today's typist
encounters him ifshe finds, to her secret resentment, that in the
office any word of aspiration is at once twisted with a grin into
smut. It seems that Satan has present activity with an ancient
title; for the old word diabolos turns out to have, before our
Myth andtheZodiac
233
history, the same root as ballistics, and means, roughly, 'mud-
slinger'.115
The attitude of cynical negation is a plague to many Scorpios.
Often it lies beneath a more optimistic surface,and the individual
does not know his own destructive negativity except in its inadver-
tent effects in life. It is a kind of depression or apathy, a conviction
that nothing will ultimately work; and it often springs from the
despair of childhood, and the peculiar sensitivity to the dark side
of the psyche which the Scorpio individual possesses when very
young. Faust ultimately makes a bargain with Mephistopheles,
that the Devil can have his soul if he ever attempts to stop life and
cling to the present moment rather than permitting change and
flow. This is perhaps connected with the fixity of Scorpio, which
because of the bitterness and negativity can often try to possess
something happy or pleasurable rather than letting life flow
through him; and at the moment of possession, the happiness is
lost. Scorpio's reputation for jealousy and possessiveness, which
often works as a bad fate within his relationships, thus is revealed
to have more complex roots . This is how Faust puts it to Mephisto-
pheles:
If to thefleeting hour 1say
'Remain, sofair thou art, remain!'
Then bindmewithyourfatal chain,
For 1will perishin that day. 116
At the end of the poem, Faust almost pronounces those fatal
words. But the restless striving spirit in him rescues him from
falling into this trap. Although he dirties his hands with corruption
and darkness, this is a necessary aspect of his quest not only for
power, but for illumination and love. Therefore much is forgiven
him. The Angels at the climax, hovering in the higher atmosphere
and bearing all that is immortal of Faust upwards towards heaven,
proclaim :
Saved isourspirit-peer, in peace,
Preserved from evilscheming;
'For hewhose strivings never cease
Is oursfor his redeeming'.
If, touched bycelestial love,
Hissoulhas sacred leaven,
There comes togreet him,!Jomabove,
The company ofHeaoen.' 7
The dyad of Faust and Mephistopheles seems to me a vivid
portrait of a conflict inherent in Scorpio, who, despite his suscepti-
bility to pride and egotism, cynicism and power-lust, nevertheless
234
The Astrology of Fate
does not cease to aspire towards an experience of love which is
ultimately his redemption. Whatever we may feel about Faust,
he is one of the most complex and the greatest of literary cre-
ations, for he embodies an archetypal human dilemma. In Part
Two of Goethe's poem he moves through an alchemical opus,
through air, water, fire and earth, descending into the myster-
ious world of the Mothers and ultimately ascending again to
heaven; and throughout this journey of burning and purification
he never abandons his soulful striving.
lung was fascinated by the figure of Faust. He saw in him the
embodiment of a problem inherent in Western culture, the diffi-
cult and thorny path of walking the narrow tightrope between a
renunciation of life sprung from bitter cynicism about the world's
possibilities, and a too great identification with and indulgence
in the realm of material gratification. Because Faust is both a spi-
ritual and a sensual man, he falls prey to the traps of both: dis-
taste for humanity on the one hand, and the rejection of God on
the other. lung describes his complex character as follows:
Faust's longing became his ruin. His longing for the other
world brought in its train a loathing of life, so that he was on
the brink of self-destruction. And his equally importunate
longing for the beauties of the world plunged him into
renewed ruin, doubt and wretchedness, which culminated in
the tragedy of Gretchen's death. His mistake was that he
made the worst of both worlds by blindly following the urge of
his
libido,
like a man
overcome by strong and violent
passions. 118
In this portrait I imagine I can see a great deal of Scorpio's
daimon, which pulls violently both upwards and downwards yet
which, like the more primitive image of the dragon fight, must
confront and ultimately learn to live with that vital and terrifying
image of instinctual life of which the Gorgon and the Hydra are
negative faces. The lofty aspirations of Scorpio, which as lung
points out can lead to a loathing for life, and its powerful sensua-
lity, which wishes to drown in the world, are extremely uncom-
fortable bedfellows. Yet they spring from the same mysterious
core, half sexuality and half spirituality, which leads Faust on his
long journey. The difficult combination of spiritualised eroticism
and eroticised spirituality is a handful for Scorpio. It is not sur-
prising that so many Scorpios seem to repress or sublimate one
or the other in despair that no reconciliation is possible. Faust
thoroughly embraces both, although he 'made the worst of both
worlds', and remains a figure of potential dignity and re-
demption.
Myth andtheZodiac
SAGmARIUS
235
Nothing more certain than incertainties;
Fortune isfulloffresh variety:
Constant in nothing but inconstancy.
Richard Barnfield, The Shepherd's Content
Before we explore the figure of the Centaur who represents the
constellation of Sagittarius, we must first consider Jupiter, the
planetary ruler of the sign, whose Greek name is Zeus. We have
met him several times already, in particular in connection with the
sign of Aries, but Zeus has a remarkably well-documented 'life
history' and, like Aphrodite, is one of the most vital and vibrant of
the gods.
Certain features which belong to Zeus-Jupiter will already be
apparent in Robert Graves' amusing retelling of the story of the
Creation of the World. Chief among these features is the intensely
competitive, conquering, bombastic nature of this ultra-male
deity. Although these qualities are traditionally associated with
Aries, I have seen them no less in Sagittarius, who is not nearly so
easy-going and good-natured as he is usually described in popular
astrological lore. Although Zeus is created by Rhea and permitted
to hold power only by her consent, he is determined to efface all
signs of his dependency on the feminine. He neverquite succeeds,
however, for his marriage to Hera, queen of the gods, binds him
once again to his feminine side. But he does not fail for lack of
trying. The tales of Zeus and his paramours, and his turbulent
marriage to his sister-mother-bride, reveal a highly individualistic
personality to this powerful god which is not so 'macho' as it
seems.
Zeus did not come to power simply by means of his victory over
the Titans; a victory which he owed, indeed, to Mother Gaia
(Rhea) and some of her children. His dominion was founded
much more upon marriages, ur>n allegiances with Gaia's
daughters and granddaughters. 11
Zeus is the father of gods and men. We have already seen that
his name, djeus, means 'the light of heaven', so that he is the daimon
of lightning and enlightenment. When he emerges as the victo-
rious king of the gods, overthrowing the rule of the earthy Titans
and establishing his own heavenly domain, he reflects the emer-
gence into collective consciousness of a spiritual principle which is
greater than Moira. It is therefore appropriate that Sagittarius
should follow Scorpio, for Zeus embodies that which belongs to
the eternal spirit rather than the mortal flesh. He iscalled Raingod,
236
The Astrology of Fate
Descender, Downpourer, Father, King and Saviour. He offers the
light of the spirit, in contrast to the doomed and fated life of the
body, held in the vicelike grip of Necessity. This is, as Iunderstand
it, the primary vision of Sagittarius- this ceaseless quest for a spirit
which will transcend fate and death.
In view of the mystery which envelops 'doom' and its con-
summation - that is, where the circles of the gods and of fate
intersect - it is conceivable that the greater the deity is the more
easily it can be placed on a par with dark Necessity or even
supplant it. When Agamemnon speaks of his fateful blindness
he names Zeus ahead of Moira. But with thoughts of 'a decree of
Zeus' or of 'the gods' the imagination turns from murky destiny
to intelligent plan and counsel. 120
As Sagittarius arises from the fumes of 'murky destiny' and the
collision with the underworld which is embodied in Scorpio, so
Zeus arises from the dominance of the chthonic Mother and
assumes rulership over gods and men. Out of the gloom of Faust's
realm of 'the Mothers', where man's powerlessness and mortality,
his allotment of family fate and his share of collective evil have
been recognised and accepted, rises that bright aspiration which
forms the core of all religious rituals: the promise of the immortal
spirit with its benign care, waiting in the embrace of the Good
Father.
The gods who now rule life as guides and as ideas no longer
belong to the earth but to ether; and hence of the three realms
and their gods ... only one remains as the place of divine
perfection, and that is Zeus' realm of light. 121
Thus Walter Otto describes Zeus, who is a far more comfortable
deity than Moira - albeit unpredictable - and far closer to the God
of our Judaeo-Christian dispensation.
But Zeus is not wholly free, nor is he wholly in command, He
may have superseded Moira, or so Aeschylos believed, but his
marriage to Hera is the eternal thorn in his divine side. This
marriage contract - emphasised always as a contract, a binding and
permanent tie like the runes of contract carved into Wotan's spear
in Wagner's Ring - links him eternally to the feminine world of
form. Unlike the Judaeo-Christian deity, Zeus cannot escape his
wife. Hera is both spouse and sister, and Kerenyi stresses the
importance of her status: she and Zeus represent a marriage of
exact equals. They engage in perpetual matrimonial quarrels such
as the one we met in connection with the prophet Teiresias, and
this wrangling is a theme which seems to run true to type in the
life-pattern of Sagittarius. Zeus forever pursues other women. The
Myth and the Zodiac
237
list of his lovers and his illicit progeny fills volumes. Hera forever
thwarts him, spies on him, persecutes her rivals, spoils his roman-
tic idylls, and attempts to destroy or drive mad his bastard chil-
dren. These two remain eternally locked in battle and eternally
wedded, an image of the fiery creator-spirit bound to the world of
form, the world of human ties and human commitments, the
world of morality and 'decency' and worldly responsibility which
is as much part of Sagittarius' nature as the wild promiscuity of
which Zeus is an emblem.
It is therefore not surprising that so many Sagittarians run
headlong into the fate of a marriage like that ofZeus and Hera. The
textbook Sagittarian avoids marriage because he feels trapped by
too many rules and rigid expectations. He dislikes being 'tied', and
prefers to be 'spontaneous' which means that he finds the conse-
quences of his actions unpleasing and prefers to avoid them. But it
is my experience that there is some kind of fate at work for those
late-marrying Centaurs, male or female. They tend to find their
Heras sooner or later. Of course, it may not be a spouse; it may be a
job, or a cause to which the individual is bound, or a house, or
some other object in the outer world. In one version of the
Zeus-Hera saga, Hera, whose name simply means 'the mistress',
seduced him with a love charm, a magic girdle. Brother and sister
went to the marriage bed in secret, beneath the ocean, to avoid the
vengeance of their father Kronos. This seduction through the
magic girdle which seems so alluring, tends to trap Sagittarius,
who despite his apparent worldliness and his freedom-loving
nature tends to remain remarkably naive about other people's
motives. Frequently it is an actual pregnancy which traps him (or
her). Yet without Hera, Zeus would be nothing. As Kerenyi points
out, he owes most of his power to her and to her female relatives,
and the friction and tension caused by the inviolable marriage
bond does more than drive him into constant illicit love affairs. It
also keeps him vital and alive. Without that friction he would fall
slack and lazy, qualities which he displays in many stories, and it is
doubtful that he would pursue his loves with such enthusiasm
were they not forbidden to him.
'I do not heed your anger; what though you were to flee to the
utmost end of the earth and sea, where Iapetos and Cronos
abide, without sunshine or breath of wind; what though you
were to travel even so far in your wandering, I would not heed
your anger,d22
says Zeus to Hera in Homer, because one of her ways of retaliating
against his infidelities is, much like her human counterparts, to
leave him and go off on repeated journeys which always end with
238
The Astrology of Fate
her return and their reconciliation. Yet despite Homer's brave
portrayal of him, he does in fact heed her anger; he must chroni-
cally reassert his manhood.
Zeus mated with Eurynome, daughterof Okeanos, and begat on
her the three Charites or Graces. Charis, according to Kerenyi, is the
word from which chairein, 'to rejoice', is derived; so, too, is our
word 'charity'. It is the opposite of erinus and the Erinyes, who
personify hate and vengeance and the anger of the Mother. Here
Zeus' progeny provides a counterpoint to the Mother-dominated
underworld, for 'to rejoice' means to be beyond the confines of
Moira's gloom. Zeus also mated with Thernis, aTitan, and she bore
him the Horai. Their names are Eunomia ('lawful order'), Dike
('just retribution') and Eirene ('peace'). Thus his struggle to be free
of Hera generates many of the qualities which we traditionally
associate with Sagittarius; and, perhaps more importantly, a realm
of justice is born which is an alternative to the merciless vengeance
of Nature and Necessity, Nemesis and Moira.
Another of Zeus' paramours was Mnemosyne, which means
'memory', and their children were the nine Muses, the culture-
bringers. Strangest of his loves was the goddess Necessity herself.
Here Zeus unites with Moira. Wotan does this, too, with the
prophetic earth goddess Erda, and fathers the Valkyries on her.
Zeus, according to the tale, pursued Necessity over earth and
through the sea. She transformed herself into many shapes to
escape him, eventually choosing that of a goose. He in turn
transformed into a swan, and coupled with her. She laid an egg,
and the child born of this egg was the famous Helen whom we
have already encountered, who helped to start the Trojan War. (In
the more common version of the story the mother of Helen is Leda,
Queen of Sparta.) Thus, in conquering Moira, Zeus unleashed
upon mankind another kind of fate: fatal beauty, fatal attraction.
Moira's death-fate may be broken by the illumination of the spirit,
but she takes her revenge in the fateful power of sexual attraction.
The list of mortal women whom Zeus seduced or pursued is
endless. By Danae he fathered the hero Perseus; by Semele, the
god Dionysos; by Europa, King Minos of Crete; by Demeter, his
sister-goddess, the maiden Persephone; and on and on. What I
understand to be the chief point in all this is his endless fertility,
his boundless creativity, his restlessness and inconstancy, and his
Protean inventiveness. These are his characteristics; but Hera is his
fate.
We may move now to the curious figure of Cheiron, or Chiron,
the Centaur whose image forms the constellation of Sagittarius.
There are two stories about his parenting. In one, Ixion, a mortal
man, beheld the goddess Hera and coveted her. Being a dutiful
Myth and the Zodiac
239
wife, and also desirous of making her husband jealous, she
reported this to Zeus, who, in order to discover the truth,
fashioned an image of his wife from a cloud and called her
Nephele. Ixion, fooled by the deception, embraced the cloud, and
begat on it a child that was halt-man, half-horse. Sometimes this
child is called Kentauros, and he mated with the mares on Mount
Pelion and bred a race of Centaurs, those wild forest-dwellers on
whose four-legged body of a horse was set the upper body of a
man. Cheiron was one of these. Sometimes the horse-child is
represented as Cheiron himself.
The second story of the Centaur's birth makes him the son of
Kronos-Saturn, and therefore half-brother to Zeus. Kronos once
lay with Philyra, daughter of Okeanos, and was surprised by his
wife Rhea in the act. Whereupon he turned himself into a stallion
and galloped off, leaving Philyra to bear her child as half-man and
half-horse, the Centaur Cherion. Loathing the monster she had to
suckle, Philyra prayed to the gods to be freed, and was turned into
a linden tree.
Whichever story we consider, Cheiron is a son of earth, by
mortal or Titan, and not an Olympian. He was known as the wisest
and most righteous of the Centaurs. His fame as healer, scholar
and prophet spread everywhere. But he is a chthonic deity, and
belongs to that group of phallic or half-animal tutors of the gods
who symbolise the wisdom of nature and of the body itself.
Cheiron became King of the Centaurs, and in a cave beneath the
summit of Mount Pelion he brought up the heroes and sons of the
gods. Outstanding among these was Asklepios, the semi-divine
healer, to whom the Centaur taught the physician's arts .
In an old vase-painting he appears in a robe covered with stars,
with an uprooted tree over his shoulder carrying his spoils of the
chase, and with his dog beside him: a savage hunter and dark
god. 123
This 'hunter and dark god' has a tragic fate. Like Zeus, he is
trapped, and it is his body which ensnares him. While entertaining
Herakles on Mount Pelion during that hero's efforts to capture the
Erymanthian Boar, he was accidentally wounded by one of Hera-
kles' arrows - in the knee, foot, or thigh, depending upon the
version of the myth, but in any event in the horse part of him.
These arrows were dipped in the blood of the Hydra which the
hero had killed and whom we met a few pages ago; and they were
deadly poison. Distressed at the accident to his old friend, Hera-
kles drew out the arrow, and Cheiron himself supplied the medi-
cines for dressing the wound. But they were of no avail, and the
Centaur retired howling in agony to his cave. He could not die, for
240
The Astrology of Fate
he was immortal; but he could not live, because the Hydra's poison
had no antidote and his anguish could not be alleviated. Much
later, when Prometheus committed his theft of fire and was
punished by Zeus and then freed by Herakles, Zeus demanded a
substitute for Prometheus, an immortal who went down into the
underworld and suffered death in his stead. This immortal was
Cheiron, and the inventor of the art of healing took upon himself
the death of the beneficent Titan Prometheus who brought fire to
man.
This is a sad tale with an even sadder end. The noble and kindly
figure of the wise Centaur scarcely deserves such a fate. Yet
the image of the suffering Cheiron with his incurable wound
somehow fits, like shadow to light, the imperious and unquench-
able figure of Zeus, the king of gods and men. Perhaps where there
is so much light, there must be darkness. The wound lies in the
animal aspect of the Centaur, and is in the leg- that which we must
stand on, or take our stand, in the material world. Cheiron is one of
a long list of lamed gods who have been injured in the foot, or, in
other words, in their relationship with physical reality. All his
wisdom cannot help him, because the poison of the Hydra is the
incurable poison of life's shadow side. My feeling is that this
sadness and woundedness are an integral part of Sagittarius, and
form a kind of depression or despair beneath the bright optimistic
surface of the sign. I believe this is why Sagittarians can be so
manic in theirstrenuous efforts to be happy and entertaining. Zeus
creates thunder and lightning in heaven, and there is no sign more
positive or resilient. But hidden in his cave is the suffering
Centaur, who can heal and give wise prophetic advice to every
man's illssave his own, and who is poisoned by the collision of his
benign nature with the darkness and poison of the world.
Perhaps because of this wound, Sagittarius is able to offer hope
and optimism to himself and others, rather than despite it. This is
not a sign which is at home in the body; nor is it comfortable with
the limitations and mundane requirements of life. The character of
Sagittarius is truly that of Zeus. Its direction is upwards, following
the flight of the archer's arrow, and the sense of life's meaningful-
ness and the benignity of the spirit is what is most readily recog-
nised, and appreciated, by others. But there is sometimes a
fanaticism in Sagittarius' enthusiastic preaching of the gospel, and
fanaticism is generally closely linked with deep inner doubts. I
have found that there is sometimes a profound bitterness and hurt
which lurks underneath, and it is, in a sense, incurable: that is, it is
a psychic fact which generates much of Sagittarius' aspiration, and
provides the impetus for his upward flight. It is incurable because
man cannot be a god . So it cannot be said that this depression or
Myth and the Zodiac
241
woundedness is 'bad', because it is in many ways the most creative
aspect of the sign. Put another way, it is the suffering of the animal
in man, which cannot fly so high, which is mute, and which is
bound to the laws of nature. This is the part leftover from the battle
in Scorpio, the poison which remains. IfSagittarius can bear to face
such a wound, then it strengthens him immeasurably, because he
does not aspire quite so high and can therefore produce with his
gifts in a more practicaland relevant way. Cheiron's self-sacrificeis
also important, for he offers up his life on behalf of Prometheus
and takes his place in the underworld with Zeus' consent. His own
gifts, those ofearth-magic, are thereby lost to men, while the giftof
fire which Prometheus has given is now acceptable and no longer a
sin. What this might mean I am not sure; but itsuggests the theme
of a sacrifice of the magical intuition and 'luck' which so often
accompanies Sagittarius in the early part of his life,and which may
need to give way to a more conscious adaptation to the world .
Zeus is the daimon who presides over Sagittarius, but the myth of
Cheiron hangs in the background, forming the shadowy under-
world of the sign. Ionce met a Sagittarian man who told me that he
had an actual wound: he had had an accident just after his
marriage, when he was in his twenties, when he felldown a flight
of stairs. A splinter entered his hip, and the wound had never
healed. Despite the best medical attention and courses of various
antibiotics, it remained septic and continued to suppurate slightly,
and caused him some considerable pain. The constant presence of
this physical problem, although not serious enough to impair
either his working or personal life, was sufficient to quiet him
down and make him thoughtful, because such a problem in the
body conveys a strange and autonomous feeling - as though it
comes from 'somewhere else' and has a mind of its own. He
happened to hear me speaking about the myth of Cheiron at a
workshop, and found it both disturbing and startling that his own
lifefitted the myth so exactly. Ilikewise found it disturbing, but not
startling, because I have encountered literal enactments of myths
before. It is always a little frightening when the world of the
archetypal images clothes itself in flesh in such an obvious way.
Usually we are more covert in the ways in which we live out the
ancient tales. One must ask oneself what such a thing might mean.
Perhaps for this man only something as tangible and awkward as a
physical disability could suffice to turn his usually outgoing and
fiery spirit inwards to contemplate such profound issues as the
point of his life, or the deeper meaning of marriage, which co-
incided with the injury.
But this is precisely where Cheiron's wound leads. Like all else
in myth, it can be understood teleologically. The wound points
242
The Astrology of Fate
upwards to Zeus and the eternal lifeof the spirit; and it also points
down to the equally divine lifeof the body which must bear such a
fiery soul and suffers accordingly. Like the magnum miraculum of
the Corpus Hermeiicum, Sagittarius is a creature worthy of dignity
and honour, part daimon and part god, part beast and part immor-
tal, who turns his eyes to the immortal half of himself, and must
then pay the necessary price of caring for the suffering body he has
so long ignored.
CAPRICORN
Wist ye not that I must beabout my Father's business?
St Lukeii.49
We have seen through the preceding signs how myths are not only
images of life-patterns, but are also modes of perception which
colour the individual's way of seeing and experiencing his life.
Therefore they appear, both inside and outside, as qualities of soul
and as worldly events. For Scorpio, life is focused upon the battle
with the serpent-monster, or with the devil; for Sagittarius, on the
flight upwards from the suffering flesh to the arms of the eternal
spirit. For Capricorn, whose familiar goat is one of the oldest
symbols of lechery, lust and fertility, the daimon circlesdownwards
again, and the spirit, refreshed by its revelation of the 'light of
heaven', now prepares for its initiation into bondage in the name
of the Father.
In both Homer and Hesiod, the planet Saturn isgiven two Titans
who preside over its powers: Krenos and Rhea. These were earth
gods, fathered on Gaia by Ouranos the sky-father. He, repelled by
their ugliness, banished them to Tartaros. Gaia persuaded her
sons to attack their father, and armed Krenos, the youngest of the
seven, with a flint sickle, the signature of the moon and of the
goddess' power. Kronos grasped his father's genitals in the left
hand and hacked them off, and threw the organs into the sea. The
drops of blood flowing from the wound fell upon Gaia the earth,
and she bore the Erinyes. Encapsulated in this story is a conflict
very different from the bickerings of Zeus and Hera, although we
have met facets of it already in Aries: the confrontation between
father and son.
The theme of the sacrifice of the old king to ensure the fertility of
the crops is an ancient motif which I relate particularly to the sign
Capricorn. The king must die, the new king must be born, and the
two must fight and, in death, be revealed as one. In Aries, son
meets father as a fire god, whose jealous wrath challenges nascent
manhood. In Leo, son meets father as a sick spirit, whose wound
must be redeemed through consciousness. In Capricorn, the
Myth andtheZodiac
243
father is the earth itself, the reality principle. Alchemy took up this
motif of the old king and portrayed him descending into the
depths of the sea, where he mates with his mother or sister, is
dismembered, and is reborn as the young king from his consort's
womb. Old King Kronos eats his children to protect himself from
their threat, knowing full well that he may face the same fate as his
own father; the hidden son rises in rebellion, just as he himself did,
a story as inevitable as fate itself. Kronos' earthy nature, as a Titan,
immediately relates him to the Earth Mother. Gaia and Rhea are
the same goddess, both representing the fertility of the earth.
Kronos is not an independent masculine principle, but rather the
masculine side of the generative principle over which the Mother
presides. His cousins, Pan and Priapus, are phallic images of
nature's fertility. Kronos and his sickle are, according to Graves,
symbols associated with ritual king-sacrifice: the bill-hook carried
by Saturn, Kronos' Roman counterpart, was shaped like a crow's
bill (the word Kronos not only means 'time' but also 'crow'), and
the crow was believed to house the soul of a sacred king after the
sacrifice. This ritual sickle gave the signal for the death which
would fertilise the earth and renew the crops. Kronos was
worshipped at Athens as the barley god Sabazius, and was
annually cut down in the cornfield and bewailed like Osiris. He is
himself both the young king and the old, for what he does to his
father is later done to him. This duality and unity of father and son,
senex and puer, is one of the dominant mythic motifs of Capricorn.
The ancient symbol of king-sacrifice is also newer than we might
think, for it is present in the figure of Christ, the son of God and the
King of the Jews. He was born (likeallsacrificialking-redeemers) at
the winter solstice, a birthday he shares with Mithras, Tammuz,
Adonis and even King Arthur. This is the time of year when the
sun is weakest and the world is darkest. The earth lies in waste and
the people long for redemption; barrenness and death lie every-
where, not least within the souls of men .T. S. Eliotin The Wasteland
puts this most beautifully:
What are theroots that clutch, what branches grow
Out ofthisstony rubbish? Son ofman,
You cannot say,or guess, for youknow only
A heap ofbroken images, where thesun beats,
And thedead tree gives noshelter, thecricket norelief,
And thedry stone nosound ofwater.124
We have met this waste land in the story of Parsifal and the Grail;
but where Parsifal is Leo's version, Capricorn's is that of the sick
Grail King himself. Like Attis, Christ the son of God is nailed to a
cross: the tree of matter, mother, material life. It is an image which
244
The Astrology of Fate
bears similarity, as Fraser knew in The Golden Bough, to the
annually sacrificed king dismembered and ploughed into the earth
to renew the crops. But the ritual dismemberment of the Eucharist
renews the spirit, and has left behind long ago that prototype
which was meant to renew nature. The theme of the waste land
and the long wait for the redeemer in depression, despair and
deadness is all too often a pattern in the lives of those born under
Capricorn, not least the ones who have achieved the worldly
success for which the sign reputedly strives so hard.
One may see the enactment of the myth in apparently ordinary
ways. The burdensome shouldering of unwelcome responsibility,
so characteristic of Capricorn's rite of passage, seems to reflect
this crucifixion in matter. Imprisonment, limitation and bondage
belong to the early part of Capricorn's life, whether this means
going to work in father's business or marrying the woman one has
made pregnant, or anyone of a myriad obligations which bind
with no hope of release. Often Capricorn walks willingly into this
bondage, although other alternatives may be open to him. It is as
though he seeks and welcomes this fate, for obscure and often
unconscious motives. I have also met many Capricorns who put
off this day of reckoning as long as possible, living almost wholly in
the pueror puella, fearing the suffering of the bondage, and no less
dominated by it in rebellion as in compliance. But the fate of
Capricorn is not that of Sagittarius. The Father's arms are not open
to receive such a prodigal son unless he has paid in good solid coin,
for this Father does not live in heaven, but in the earth itself. Back
and down the prodigal must go, to be nailed upon the cross of
worldly experience. The crisis of despair and lost faith also belongs
to Capricorn, the cry of Christ on the cross: Father, why hast thou
forsaken me?
The mythic theme of atonement with the father is one about
which Joseph Campbell writes eloquently in The Hero With a
Thousand Faces. Capricorn almost always seems to find the perso-
nal father a disappointment, just as Leo does, for the Father he
seeks is nothing less than divine. But the wrath of this father is a
deeply significant issue for Capricorn. Saturn is the Terrible Earth-
Father, and his devouring and destroying face, his jealousy and
paranoia and power-lust provoke the experience of guilt and sin
which seem to be so embedded in Capricorn's psychology.
The ogre aspect of the father is a reflexof the victim's own ego-
derived from the sensational nursery scene that has been left
behind, but projected before; and the fixating idolatry of that
pedagogical non-thing is itself the fault that keeps one steeped
in a sense of sin, sealing the potentially adult spirit from a better
Myth and the Zodiac
245
balanced, more realistic view of the father, and therewith of the
world. Atonement (at-one-ment) consists in no more than the
abandonment of that self-generated double-monster -
the
dragon thought to be God (superego) and the dragon thought
to be Sin (repressed Id) . .. One must have a faith that the father
is merciful, and then a reliance on that mercy.125
I understand Campbell to be saying by this that the father-son
polarity, the avenging Lawgiver whose strict and structured rules
of life collide with the lusty, libidinous goat-like desires of the son,
exists within the one individual. Morality and shame, law and
lawlessness, seem to comprise some of the polar opposites of
Capricorn. The son must face the father's punishment, only to
find that the father is within himself; and the father, the old king,
must face the son's rebellion, only to find that it is his own
youthful spirit that he thought he had outgrown long ago. The
initiation of the son by the father is an inner experience which, it
seems as though by fate, Capricorn is often denied in the actual
parental relationship, and he must therefore seek it within himself
on a deeper level. By this description I am, as usual, not talking
about men only, for this father-son constellation belongs as much
to woman and her capacity for effectiveness and self-sufficiency in
the world as it does to man .
When the child outgrows the popular idyl of the mother's
breast and turns to face the world of specialised adult action, it
passes, spiritually, into the sphere of the father - who becomes,
for his son [or daughter] the sign of the future task . .. Whether
he knows it or not, and no matter what his position in society,
the father is the initiating priest through whom the young
being passes on into the larger world .126
This rite of initiation, with its revelation of father first as ogre
and persecutor, its requirement of acceptance of the 'rules' and
conditions of the world, and its ultimate vision of a merciful
Father and an immortal soul, seems to be the archetypal Satur-
anian path. The young man or woman does not wish to observe
the conditions or the necessary preparations; it must be done
now, it must happen now, why should one wait? This is the
quality of the puer, for whom all things must be instantaneous and
spontaneous. But Capricorn's initiation is not won by boyish-
ness or girlishness. For anyone undergoing a transit or progress-
ion involving Saturn, this ritual is offered at the deepest level; for
Capricorn, it recurs over and over in life, for each thing that is
worth having must be approached by the route that winds past
the throne of the Father.
246
The Astrology of Fate
Come, 0 Dithyrambos,
Enter this, my male womb,
cries Zeus to Dionysos his son in Euripides' Bacchae, and this entry
into the world of the Father and the separation from the Mother
forms the leit-motif of Capricorn's passage through life. Often the
manifestation of this movement occurs in the field of work: the
commitment to a vocation and to worldly life. Acceptance of
earthly responsibility and limitation is also the process of passage
from being the son to being the father, from boy to man, from
ungrounded spirit to active contribution in incarnation. Incar-
nation also involves a sense of community, a species of service,
and one of the more difficult aspects of the descent is the participa-
tion in the community life - which for the puer is an irritant and a
threat because it seems to spoil his specialness and uniqueness,
and offends his narcissistic focus. Paradoxically, the 'imprison-
ment' which is entailed in such a commitment is also a freeing. It is
the atonement with the Father, without which no genuine living-
ness of faith can enter life. Otherwise, spirit remains an ideal'up
there' somewhere, and falls to bits when put to the test of chal-
lenge, conflict and failure. Failure is a necessary aspect of Capri-
corn's journey, for his faith is meaningless unless it is tried against
his despair.
Following is the dream of a Capricornian client, a man who came
to have his horoscope interpreted during the period when Saturn,
his sun sign ruler, was transiting in conjunction with Pluto across
his ascendant at the end of Libra. This long transit had taxed him in
many ways. My description of the themes of imprisonment and
limitation provoked him to tell me the dream.
I am with my wife in a prison. It is a peculiar place because the
doors are open, and we are free to leave. But there is a feeling of
having voluntarily accepted this imprisonment. A female guard
stands outside the door, an older dark woman. She watches
impersonally but does not interfere. My wife is uncomfortable
about shutting the door, which I feel is necessary to show that
we have freely consented. I reassure her, telling her that the
imprisonment will not last forever, but for reasons which in the
dream are obscure, we must endure it.
At the outset of the transit, my client had been experiencing great
dissatisfaction with his job, his marriage, his children, and his own
physical body. Everything in his life seemed a trap. He had
achieved considerable success in the field oflaw, but had never felt
it was really 'him'; there was always something else that might
have been better. This is characteristic of the puer, who lives in a
Myth and theZodiac
247
perpetually provisional state where the 'real thing' is always later,
but never now. Now is only a trial run, and therefore not worthy of
full commitment. My client had always carried a sense of 'one day
when I grow up', a feeling of discontent and a fantasy of greater
fame and achievement and a more satisfactory relationship 'one
day'. The youth is not yet prepared to become father, because he
fears the loss of creative possibilities and the destruction of the
fantasy that he can be anything. So he remains a youth, although
my client was a father in factand well into middle age. Although he
was getting on in terms of age, he had only just begun to experi-
ence the inner initiation of father to son, and the paradoxical
freedom of the voluntary imprisonment.
This dream suggests to me that my client was gradually chang-
ing through the course of the Saturn-Pluto transit over the
ascendant, and that he was on the verge of understanding that the
'real thing' was whatever was in his life. This is, at its most
profound, a religious attitude, for it is an acceptance of what one
has been given and a voluntary decision to treat what has been
given with respect and with the whole of one's care. The theme of
this dream, which seems to me to be about an ultimate coming to
terms with one's lifeasit is, is echoed in Mary Renault's novel, The
King Must Die, where old King Pittheus of Troiezen says to the
young Theseus:
Listen, and do not forget, and Iwillshow you a mystery. Itis not
the sacrifice, whether it comes in youth or age, or the god remits
it; it is not the blood-letting that calls down power. It is the
consenting, Theseus. The readiness is all. It washes heart and
mind from things of no account, and leaves them open to the
god. But one washing does not last a lifetime; we must renew it,
or the dust returns to cover US . 127
The motif of voluntary imprisonment and crucifixion runs like a
red thread through the dream- and fantasy-life of Capricorn. This
seems true regardless of the religious persuasion of the individual,
or his sex; for the relationship between puer and senex, youth and
old man, can be equally relevant for the woman whose creative
spirit seeks expression in external life. The birth in flesh, the sense
ofsin before the wrathful father, the despair and bondage and dark
night, the cynicism and loss of faith, and the dawning sense of a
firm spiritual principle or ethical code by which one can at last
commit oneself- all these are, in human form, the enactment of the
myth of the redeemer who must die in order to renew the old king.
If lifedoes not provide experiences ready at hand for Capricorn to
make his rite of passage, then he will create his problems for
himself. It is no wonder that, given the choice of the easy way or
248
TheAstrologyof Fate
.the hard, the Goat will almost always take the hard one. Nor is it
surprising that it is only later in life that the jubilant boy, at last
contained by the Father, looks out of the eyes of the middle-aged
man, or the young girl, full of the joy of a youth she probably
missed in actual youth, smiles from the face of the experienced
woman. This faith fought hard for, doubted, lost and found again
in darkness is the sustenance of the mature Capricorn, who - man
or woman - can then father the next generation with grace.
Through the Christian church (in the mythology of the Fall and
Redemption, Crucifixion and Resurrection, the 'second birth'
of baptism, the initiatory blow on the cheek at confirmation,
the symbolical eating of the Flesh and drinking of the Blood)
solemnly, and sometimes effectively, we are united to those im-
mortal imagesofinitiatory might, through the sacramental opera-
tion of which, man, since the beginning of his day on earth,
has dispelled the terrors of his phenomenality and won through
to the all-transfiguring vision of immortal being.128
In psychological terms, the puerand the senexare embodied in
the myth of Saturn-Kronos first overthrowing his father, then
becoming father, then devouring his own sons to prevent them
from doing the same to him, and at last being himself overthrown
by the young Zeus . Whether the senexis the personal father, a set
of rigid 'superego' ethics within the person, or the external insti-
tutions and authorities of the outer world, Capricorn's daimon
seems to drive him into this cycle so that he can experience its
duality within himself. James Hillman in his book Puer Papers
quotes from the tenth century Picatrix a prayer to Saturn:
o Master of sublime name and great power, supreme Master; 0
Master Saturn: Thou, the Cold, the Sterile, the Mournful, the
Pernicious; Thou, whose life is sincere and whose word sure;
Thou, the Sage and Solitary, the Impenetrable; Thou, whose
promises are kept; Thou who art weak and weary; Thou who
hast cares greater than any other, who knowest neither pleas-
ure, nor joy; Thou, the old and cunning, master of all artifice,
deceitful, wise and judicious; Thou who bringest prosperity or
ruin and makest men to be happy or unhappy! Iconjure Thee, 0
Supreme Father, by Thy great benevolence, and Thy generous
bounty, to do for me what I ask. 129
Needless to say, this prayer is a mass of paradoxes and contra-
dictions. Hillman points out that in the figure of Saturn, the dual
aspect is more vividly real than in any other Greek god-figure -
even more than in Hermes. Father Saturn is both pernicious and
truthful, bounteous and stingy, terrible and merciful. What he is
Myth and the Zodiac
249
not, in this prayer, is youthful; for the youth in himself is experi-
enced in the suppliant, and is projected outside. Hillman feels that
astrology itself is a Saturnian art, because it concerns the limits and
boundaries within which the individual must develop:
Thus personality descriptions of the senex given by astrology
will be statements of the senex by the senex. It is a description
from the inside, a self-description of the bound and fettered
condition of human nature set within the privation of its char-
acterologicallimits and whose wisdom comes through suffering
those limits. 130
To accept these limits is, in a sense, for father and son to become
one.
I would now like to explore the strange Capricornian goat-fish
which is the astral emblem of the sign. The mythic tale associated
with this constellation seems at first disconnected from the theme
of the crucifixion and resurrection of the king. According to
Graves, the fish-goat or goat-fish (depending upon where one
wishes to put the emphasis) is Amaltheia, the goat-nymph who
suckled the young Zeus on Mount Dicte when his mother, Rhea,
hid him from the devouring wrath of his father, Kronos. This is a
paradox, and we have met it already in several myths. Kronos
himself is the Old Goat, and god of fertility; in Teutonic myth as
well as in Greek, the goat is associated with the harvesting of the
grain, and with the abundant Cornucopia full of the fruits of early
winter. AmaItheia is the succouring goat, the one who gives life to
the young and helpless son; Kronos is the destroying goat, who
will eat his own young. Thus, as in the case of Theseus with his
bull-father, a single symbol unites all the characters.
Zeus was grateful to Amaltheia for her kindness, and when he
became lord of the universe he set her image among the stars as
Capricorn. He also borrowed one of her horns, and it became the
Cornucopia or Horn of Plenty which isalways filledwith whatever
food or drink its owner may desire - a kind of Grail. This boun-
teous side of Saturn was worshipped by the Romans at their
Saturnalia, which coincided with our Christmas; in other words, in
Saturn's month. The strange pairing of the positive and negative
sides of the goat embedded in this myth seems to suggest, as with
Theseus, that there is a profound collusion between the dark and
light aspects of the same deity. The Terrible Father, who seeks to
destroy his son secretly and unconsciously, also offers him sal-
vation through the feminine aspect of the same emblem which he
himself wears. It is this secret collusion which is quite awesome to
meet in analytic work. One becomes aware that despite the indi-
vidual's fears, resistances, symptoms and problems, there is
250
TheAstrologyof Fate
something, whatever word one chooses to give it, which has a
secret purpose to those very symptoms and problems, as though
divided against itself, yet on some very hidden level undivided
and working towards the greater wholeness of the individual. That
principle which causes Capricorn his greatest suffering- the rigid,
guilt-ridden, narrow, fearful, paranoid old king - is also the same
principle which gives him the endurance, determination and
foresight to struggle through that which blocks him, just as in the
myth where one face of the daimon, Kronos, attempts to destroy
while the other face, Amaltheia, succours and preserves.
It is interesting, in context of the symbolism of the goat-fish, to
discover that there is a myth connected with it even older than that
of Kronos and Amaltheia. This is the ancient figure of the Sumer-
ian water god Ea, whose symbol is the fish-tailed goat. This god Ea
later translated into Oannes in Greek, and the name Oannes in
tum became John; and we arrive at the mythic figure of John the
Baptist, who has older theriomorphic forerunners, and who
prophesies the coming of the redeemer. This is the paradox of that
strange father-god to whom Capricorn is bound, the daimon of his
fate. It is in many ways akin to Yahveh, although it is more God's
law than God's fire that we meet in Capricorn. This is the perverse
and antinomian God who both afflicts and succours Job, and
paradoxically, according to Christian doctrine, brings His only son
into the world and then crucifies him, thereby Himself suffering
the fate of mortals, in order to redeem both them and, secretly,
Himself.
AQUARIUS
For Mercyhasa human heart,
Pity a humanface,
And Love, thehuman form divine,
And Peace, thehuman dress.
Blake, Songs of Innocence
We arrive now at the sign of the 'New Age', which in the 1960swas
proclaimed to be the age of love and brotherhood but which, it is
increasingly apparent, may be a little more complex than that.
Aquarius is a complex sign, with two planetary rulers, Saturn and
Uranus; but its rulers, unlike those of Scorpio, have little in
common. In fact they are enemies in Greek myth, as we have seen,
and the struggle between them seems to portray an inherent
duality or ambiguity within Aquarius itself. We have seen quite a
lot of Kronos-Saturn already, and there is little mythic material on
the sky god Ouranos save the fate he suffers at the hands of his
son. In fact the only salient piece of information we have about this
Myth and the Zodiac
251
ancient and elusive deity is that he was repelled by the children he
begat on his mother-wife-sister Gaia, the earthy Titans and the
grotesque hundred-handed Giants, and imprisoned the whole
brood in Tartaros, the bowels of the underworld, so that they
would not offend his aesthetic eye. This tells us a good deal about
Aquarius, in fact, more than the paucity of material might suggest.
I have seen this process of repression of the earthy and the bestial
so often in Aquarians that it seems a fundamental necessity of the
sign. The offensiveness that the crude and the chthonic hold for
Aquarius accounts, perhaps, for its ceaseless efforts to reform and
redeem mankind, and its almost ferocious civilising instinct which
is forever worrrying at the baser aspects of the human personality
like a dog at a bone. Like Ouranos, the 'heavenly' daimon of
perfectionism suffers eventually at the hands of that which it has
cast out, but is redeemed in other, more ambiguous forms . The
severed genitals which Kronos throws into the sea breed the
goddess Aphrodite, who combines in herself both the sensuality of
the earth-born Titans and the aestheticism of the sky god who is
her father. The Erinyes, as we have seen, are also his progeny,
born of his suffering and his blood, and are a kind of permanent
law against the shedding of the blood of kin.
But we must look further afield than Ouranos if we are to grasp
the mythic pattern of Aquarius. My feeling is that an equally
important figure who embodies much of the meaning of the sign is
the beneficent Titan Prometheus, who comes of the same race as
Kronos yet who sides with Zeus in his battle against his father, and
who ultimately takes the side of man against the gods. Prometheus
is the great cosmic social worker, whose theft of fire from Zeus to
give to man embodies a spirit which is not content with merely
instinctual
life,
but
must
forever
grow
better
and
more
enlightened.
There is some disagreement about Prometheus' birth in the
stories. All agree that he was a Titan, but he is sometimes Hera's
illegitimate child, and sometimes the son of Iapetus the Titan. His
name means 'the one who foresees ' or 'the provident'. He had a
brother, Epimetheus, whose name means 'he who learns only
from the event' or 'the heedless'. Together these two Titans seem
to describe opposite qualities of the human spirit. Because Prome-
theus was gifted with foresight, he knew the outcome of the
rebellion of Zeus against his father Krenos. and although he was
himself a Titan he wisely preferred to fight on Zeus' side . He
assisted at the birth of the goddess Athene from Zeus' head, and
she in turn taught him architecture, astronomy, mathematics,
navigation, medicine, metallurgy and other useful arts . These in
turn he passed on to man . In fact, the oldest version of the
252
The Astrology of Fate
Prometheus myth tells that it was the Titan himself who made
men, with the consent of Athene, out of day and water in the
likeness ofgods; and Athene breathed lifeinto them. This issimilar
to the Talmudic account of Creation, where the archangel Michael
(Prometheus' counterpart) formed
Adam
from dust at the
command of Yahveh.
The arts which Prometheus taught man mark him as the daimon
of the cultural impulse. He is an image of that instinct which strives
to raise man beyond his animal origins - i.e. to become godlike.
There is a long passage in Aeschylos' Prometheus Bound which
expresses eloquently the gifts which the Titan, against the wishes
of Zeus, has bestowed on man:
Of wretched humans he[Zeus] took noaccount, resolved
Toannihilate them andcreate another race.
This purpose there wasnooneto oppose but I:
I dared. I saved thehuman race from being ground
Todust, from total death. 131
Prometheus goes on to speak of how men could not understand
nor see things properly, nor comprehend the world around them;
how they could not build houses, possessing no carpentry; how
they could not make sense of the orderly cycle of the changing
seasons and the growing of crops. He tells of how he introduced
them to astronomy and mathematics, the training and care of
animals, and shipbuilding. He also taught them medicine and
healing and prophecy and the reading of omens, and the working
of gold, silver and iron .
So, here's thewhole truth in one word:
All human skillandscience was Prometheus' gift.132
This benign impulse of good will toward mankind Ifeel to be one
of the dominant themes in Aquarius, and it is certainly the one
which most descriptions of the sign portray. But the myth of
Prometheus is not so simple, for there is another character in the
story who also belongs to Aquarius, with whom the Titan is
involved in kinship and enmity: Zeus, king of the gods . Zeus
wanted to destroy man, and spared him only at the Titan's plea;
and he grew gradually angrier and angrier at the increasing
powers and talents which Prometheus' human protegees began to
display. This is the jealous God of Genesis, who does not wish His
creation to partake of the fruit of the Trees of Knowledge and Life,
lest man become as God. Zeus here is more like his own father
Kronos, and seems to embody that aspect of the psyche which
does not wish to become conscious, but attempts to thwart and
hold back the development of the individual ego, threatening dire
Myth and the Zodiac
253
punishments and instilling a sense of sin in the renegade. Prome-
theus is incessantly at odds with Zeus over the issue of how much
or how little mankind should be permitted in its development. It is
as though these two deities represent some profound truth about
the nature of ourselves. I feel that Aquarius, whose powerful
impulse towards the development of the civilised and conscious
aspects of man is well known, has likewise an equally powerful
antithetical aspect within him, which forms the drama of his own
mythic pattern.
Prometheus evidenced his contempt for Zeus' tyranny in num-
erous ways. According to the tale, one day the Titan was invited to
act as arbiter in a dispute about which portions of a sacrificial bull
should be offered to the gods and which given to men to eat. He
flayed and jointed the animal and sewed its hide to form two
open-mouthed bags. Into one he put the delicious flesh, concealed
beneath the untempting stomach. Into the other, he put the bare
bones, covered with a rich layer of fat. Then he offered Zeus the
choice. The god, easily deceived, chose the bag with the bones and
fat, and in fury at the deception punished Prometheus by denying
man the gift of fire. 'Let them eat their flesh raw!' he cried.
Prometheus then went to Athene, his patroness, who let him into
Olympus by the back stairs. He lit a torch at the fiery chariot of the
sun and broke from it a fragment of glowing charcoal. This he
thrust into the pithy hollow of a giant fennel stalk. Then, extin-
guishing his torch, he stole away and delivered the sacred flame to
man.
Zeus swore revenge. He ordered Hephaistos, the divine smith,
to make a clay woman. The four Winds breathed life into her and
all the Olympian goddesses adorned her. This woman, called
Pandora, Zeus sent as a gift to Epimetheus, Prometheus' brother.
But Epimetheus had been warned by his foresighted sibling to
accept no gifts from Zeus, so he refused the woman. Zeus then had
Prometheus chained naked to a pillar high in the Caucasian
mountains where a greedy vulture (or eagle) tore at his liver all
day, year in and year out. Every night the liver grew whole again.
Epimetheus, alarmed by his brother's fate, married Pandora. She
opened a jar which Prometheus had warned him to keep closed,
and in which he had been at pains to imprison all the Spites that
might plague mankind: Old Age, Labour, Sickness, Insanity, Vice
and Passion . These flew out in a cloud, and attacked the race of
mortals. Delusive Hope, however, which Prometheus had also
shut in the jar, discouraged men byher lies from a general suicide.
The suffering of Prometheus, intended by Zeus to be eternal,
was, however, finite, for the hero Herakles pleaded for his release,
and it was granted. We have already seen how the Centaur
254
TheAstrologyof Fate
Cheiron offered to exchange mortality with the Titan, so that
Hades should not be cheated of a soul. Having once condemned
Prometheus to everlasting punishment, Zeus stipulated that, in
order to appear still a prisoner, the Titan must wear a ring made
from his chains and set with Caucasian stone. Mankind now began
to wear rings and wreaths in honour of their benefactor, and Zeus
set the arrow which Herakles used to shoot the vulture which
tormented the Titan in the stars as the constellation Sagitta.
Prometheus is the redeemer of mankind from darkness. As he
himself says in Aeschylos' tragedy, all arts and sciences which the
human race has developed stem from him. This beneficent aspect
of the mythic figure is recognisable enough in the Aquarian
concern for human welfare and development. But the problem of
Zeus is less simple, and likewise the image of his torment. Here is
the parodoxical problem of the urge towards consciousness collid-
ing with the urge towards unconsciousness. Prometheus is not
'man' in the sense of the ego; he is the daimon who seeks to help
man develop. This perpetual tension on an archetypal level creates
inevitable suffering, because the collision is inevitable. We can
look upon Prometheus as a hero, because he has offered man the
divine creative fire. But from the point of view of the gods' world,
he has committed a crime, a sin, and this situation is one which
Jung was particularly concerned with: the sense of sin which arises
when any effort is made at individual realisation.
Jung had Aquarius on the ascendant, and therefore his preoccu-
pation with this problem must have had something to do with him
as well as something he observed in his patients. By opening up
the Pandora's box of the unconscious, he was, paradoxically,
playing both the role of Prometheus and that of Zeus. His constant
doubt in the validity of his own work is, I think, some indication of
what that vulture or eagle attacking the liver might mean; for the
liver, in ancient astrological-physiological correlation, is the organ
of Zeus-Jupiter and therefore Zeus' vulture destroys that part of
the mortal body which is also the god himself. We are back yet
again to that peculiar doubling of symbols which we have already
met several times. The god punishes Prometheus through the very
aspect of the Titan which reflects the god. Perhaps this might be
described as his faith, or his belief in himself. I have found that,
side by side with the genuine altruism of Aquarius, there also lies a
profound self-doubt, and I have rarely seen people quite so adept
at self-punishment and self-denigration as those Aquarians who
have managed to express something of the Promethean spirit and
have contributed something, however small, to individual or
collective evolution. In traditional astrology the sun is in 'detri-
ment' in the sign of Aquarius, and this is said to indicate that the
Myth and the Zodiac
255
principle of self-expression and self-confidence is hampered by
Aquarius' perpetual concern with the power and viewpoint of the
group. Aquarius is often tormented with the horror of being
'selfish', and is the most riddled of all the signs with 'shoulds' and
'oughts'. The myth suggests a deeper ground for this fear of
self-fulfilment. It implies the problem of the sense of sin which
accompanies any real effort at development.
Genesis represents the act of becoming conscious as a taboo
infringement, as though knowledge meant that a sacrosanct
barrier had been impiously overstepped. I think that Genesis is
right in so far as every step toward a greater consciousness is a
kind of Promethean guilt: through knowledge, the gods are as it
were robbed of their fire, that is, something that was the
property of the unconscious powers is torn out of its natural
context and subordinated to the whims of the conscious mind.
The man who has usurped the new knowledge suffers,
however, a transformation or enlargement of consciousness,
which no longer resembles that of his fellow men. He has raised
himself above the human level of his age ('ye shall become like
unto God'), but in so doing has alienated himself from human-
ity. The pain of this loneliness is the vengeance of the gods, for
never again can he return to mankind. He is, as the myth says,
chained to the lonely cliffs of the Causcasus, forsaken of God
and man. l33
I could not put this better than Jung has, and no doubt he knew
all too well the 'pain of this loneliness', because he stole a consider-
able amount of fire. Needless to say, isolation from fellows is a
profoundly painful dilemma for the socially minded Aquarian. We
are Jung's beneficiaries; but no doubt the man himself had, despite
the remission of punishment which occurs in the myth, to conti-
nue to wear the ring forged from his chain, the reminder of the
offence against the gods. All the traditional Aquarian fields of
endeavour - science, invention, social welfare, psychology, even
astrology - are tainted with this loneliness which is the price of
offending Zeus . It forms the secret shadow-impetus behind the
one who 'must' help others, for it is through these helping
relationships that some little portion of the intense loneliness of
insight is alleviated. It is well to remember that Lucifer, that
rebellious angel who opposed the wishes of God, means 'light-
bearer' in Latin, and that in Aquarius we have met another form of
the dialogue between rebellious son and jealous father. In Capri-
corn, this dialogue occurs between the father who has crystallised
into old rigid forms, and the son who rebels against these worldly
restrictions to the detriment of his own productivity. In Aquarius,
256
The Astrology of Fate
we are confronting that jealous god whose creation has illicitly
spied out the secrets of his origin.
It is probably relevant that in one version of the Prometheus
myth, Zeus remits the punishment not out of compassion or
favour to Herakles, but because Prometheus the foresighted
knows the future fate that awaits the king of the gods . Zeus,
reluctant to have this information withheld from him, allows
himself to be blackmailed. Once again we encounter that myster-
ious left-handed handshake which is the secret collusion between
conscious and unconscious. Zeus, although he could have blasted
Prometheus into atoms for his sin, permitted him to continue to
exist and even to go free, because the Titan had something the
king of the gods himself needed. He required knowledge of the
future from Prometheus, and guidance in how to meet it. This is
the old alchemical heresy once again, that God needs man to
achieve the work of perfection. It is also one of the major themes
which runs through lung's work, and which infuses it with such a
deeply mystical feeling. The struggle towards individuation is not
just a 'cure' for neurotic discomfort, but a sacred work done
both for man and God. Ego and unconscious thus possess a
strangely ambivalent relationship. They are enemies, yet they are
dependent upon one another. Zeus and Prometheus sprang from
the same seed: Ouranos the sky god, who is the image of the
eternal heavens. But they are of different stock: Zeus is an Olym-
pian, and therefore 'airy', while Prometheus is a Titan and there-
fore 'earthy'. One is allied to spirit, the other to the world . Their
delicately balanced relationship is full of dangers, yet it is a
partnership of equals, in value if not in nature.
We may now consider the actual constellation of Aquarius, and
those myths which are connected with it. The Waterbearer in
Egyptian lore was the god who presided over the river Nile. He
was called Hapi, and was portrayed as a vigorous fat man with
woman's breasts, dressed as a boatman or fisherman, who
resided near the First Cataract in a cavern where he poured water
to heaven and earth from his urns. Because the whole of Egyptian
civilisation depended upon the yearly flooding of the Nile, Hapi
was an important deity. But he did not do anything else besides
pour his water. The Greeks put an altogether different myth upon
the constellation: that of Ganymedes the beautiful son of King
Tros of Troy. According to this story, he was the loveliest youth
alive, and Zeus desired him and chose him to be cupbearer to the
gods. The Olympian disguised himself as an eagle and abducted
the boy to heaven. Afterwards, on Zeus' behalf, Hermes pre-
sented King Tros with a golden vine and two fine horses in com-
pensation. Ganymedes was made immortal and dispensed nectar
Myth and the Zodiac
257
to the gods, while Zeus set his image among the stars as the
Water-bearer.
What relevance this pretty little myth might have to the complex
psychology and fate of Aquarius is not immediately apparent.
Robert Graves has the following comments to make about it:
The Zeus-Ganymedes myth gained immense popularity in
Greece and Rome because it afforded religious justification for
grown men's passionate love of a boy . . . With the spread of
Platonic philosophy the hitherto intellectually dominant Greek
woman degenerated into an unpaid worker and breeder of
children wherever Zeus and Apollo were the ruling gods .134
Now Iam inclined, since not all Aquarians are homosexual, to take
symbolically, rather than literally, this charming story of gay Greek
gods. Graves connects the myth with a repudiation of the femin-
ine, and a reduction in its power. This is certainly a relevant theme
for Aquarius. There is a noticeable horror of the base and the
biological inherent in the sign - we have seen this already in the
story of Ouranos rejecting his Titan children - and there is likewise
a deep fear of the irrational. The image of homosexuality in myth
might, among other things, suggest an exclusively masculine
world , a place where women and the instinctual plane of life
cannot enter - a union which produces no offspring other than
those of the mind and spirit. This applies no less to the Aquarian
woman than to the Aquarian man, for she is often more at home
with masculine company and masculine ideals. The tribal custom
of taking pubescent boys away from their mothers and setting
them up in exclusively masculine 'clubs' or groups in order to
counteract the power of the feminine, matriarchal realm is an
anthropological parallel which suggests how archetypal is the
quest for male strength in the exclusion of the feminine. Zeus and
Ganymedes together reject Hera the Mistress. When the king of
the gods takes a female paramour, Hera can at least compete. With
Ganymedes, she cannot even get near it. I feel this is an Aquarian
pattern, although it generally occurs in spheres other than the
sexual one. This sign is most definitely the champion of light and
spirit, and the only feminine deity with whom Prometheus himself
had any dealings at all was Athene, herself hardly a friend of the
Great Mother as she is a father's virgin daughter. Thus the Prome-
thean world is a masculine world, in which the drama of the
struggle for evolution and its inevitable repercussions are imaged.
PISCES
Teach me halfthegladness
That thy brain must know,
258
The Astrology of Fate
Such harmonious madness
From my lips would flow
Theworld should listen then - as Iamlistening now.
Shelley, To a Skylark
The sign of the Fishes is steeped in myth, for unlike many of the
other zodiacal creatures, the lineage of this last of the signs clearly
precedes the Greeks by many centuries. Pisces is also one of the
most surprising of signs, for an exploration of its myths yields
insights which are not normally associated with the traditional
'sensitive soul' who may become a drunkard, a musician or a
nurse. The last sign is also the first, because it forms the back-
ground from which the new cycle will spring; and when seen in
this way, it is not strange that the symbolism of the Fishes connects
us not with the god Neptune, nor with any other male deity, but
with the primal Mother whom we have already met in the sign
Cancer, whose manifestation is water.
The fish has a very old and varied symbolism. It is one of those
theriomorphic images which spans the spectrum from the orgiastic
watery depths of the fertility goddess to the transcendant flesh of
Christ. Like the dove, which traverses the same spectrum and is
Ishtar's and Aphrodite's bird as well as the symbol of the Holy
Ghost, the fish is both pagan and Christian, and ultimately femin-
ine in nature. Ifwe pick our way through the tangle of interconnec-
ted tales and deities, we willeventually arrive at a common theme.
The earliest Egyptian and Babylonian stories about the two
heavenly Fishes associate them with the Syro-Phoenician fish cult
of the great goddess Atargatis, whom we met in connection with
Virgo. Her temples had pools with sacred fishes in them which no
one was allowed to touch. Meals of fish were ritually eaten in these
temples, for the goddess herself was sometimes portrayed in the
form of a fish, and her priests wore fish skins. This fish goddess
had a son, called Ichthys, and he too was a fish. Later he evolved
into the Babylonian fish god Ea, who is also associated with
Capricorn, the goat-fish. Atargatis and Ichthys are also Ishtar and
Tammuz, Kybele and Attis, Aphrodite and Adonis. According to
the Babylonian story, two fishes found a giant egg in the Euph-
rates, which they propelled to land. There a dove settled on it.
After a few days there emerged from the egg the goddess Atarga-
tis. At her request, the fishes were honoured by being placed in the
heavens. In the Greek version of this tale, Aphrodite and her son
Eros fled from the monster Typhon, disguising themselves as
fishes: or, in another version, they were rescued by fishes, who
were repaid for their kindness with a place in the sky. So that they
should not be separated, their tails were tied together.
Myth and the Zodiac
259
That the Great Mother and her seasonal, ritually sacrificed
son-lover are fishes is not so strange if we understand the way in
which the fish was symbolised in myth .Iung describes this nicely:
The mythological Great Mothers are usually a danger to their
sons.Jeremias mentions a fish representation on an early Chris-
tian lamp, showing one fish devouring the other. The name of
the largest star in the constellation known as the Southern Fish-
Fomalhaut, 'the fish's mouth' - might be interpreted in this
sense, just as in fish symbolism every conceivable form of
devouring concupiscentia is attributed to fishes, which are said to
be 'ambitious, libidinous, voracious, avaricious, lascivious' - in
short, an emblem of the vanity of the world and of earthly
pleasures ('voluptas terrena'). They owe these bad qualities
most of all to their relationship with the mother- and love-
goddess Ishtar, Astarte, Atargatis, or Aphrodite. As the planet
Venus, she has her 'exaltatio' in the zodiacal sign of the
Fishes. 135
So one of these fishes is the great fertility goddess, and the other
her son. She is devouring, destructive and lascivious: the primord-
ial world of instinct. He is the redeemer, Ichthys, the Christ. They
are bound forever by the cord which ties their tails; they cannot
escape one another. The ambivalent attitude towards the fish in
ancient religious symbolism reflects this pairing, for on the one
hand it is unclean and an emblem of hatred and damnation, and on
the other it is an object of veneration. Ironically, the fish was also
sacred to Typhon, that monster from whom the goddess and her
son fled disguised as fishes; so yet again we meet that repetition of
a single image in myth, where both pursued and pursuer wear the
same form, and that which redeems bears the same countenance
as that which is damned. Perhaps we are here confronting an
image of the transient yet sacred life of the individual soul, born
out of the Mother and doomed to return to her, forever bound to
her, yet for a brief season the fertiliser of the earth and the creative
spark which renews life.
The Piscean myth is therefore closely connected with the Mother
and her lover-son, and in particular with the mythic tragedy of the
son's early death and resurrection. The seasonal redeemer god is
dismembered by the Mother herself, or by one of her totem
animals - boar, snake, stag, wolf. We metthis redeemer son in Leo
and in Capricorn, but in those signs he is the son of his father. In
Pisces we meet the Mother's child, the bittersweet tale of the son
who is 'on loan' only for a season, and whose poignant story has
come down to us only thinly disguised in Christian doctrine. The
connections of the astrological age of the Fishes and Christianity
260
The Astrology of Fate
are obvious, particularly in the references provided by the Gospels
themselves - 'fishers of men', fishermen as the first disciples,
miracle of loaves and fishes. The symbolism shows Christ and
those who believe in him as fishes, fish as the food eaten at the
religious meal, baptism as an immersion in a fish-pond, and so on.
The dismembered Christ is ritually eaten, his blood ritually drunk;
in this sense he is the direct descendant of Attis, Tammuz and
Adonis, and his early death on the cross of wood, the tree-symbol
of the Mother, is a fated death not because Roman or Jew has
pronounced it, but because the Mother has called him home again .
The theme of redeemer and victim is very close to the heart of
Pisces. Whether the individual Piscean identifies more with the
victim and becomes the one whom life has dismembered, or with
the redeemer who is the saviour of suffering, there is not much to
choose between them, for they are two facets of the same thing. So
too is the voracious fish, the goddess, from whom the victim must
be rescued; or to whom the redeemer must be sacrificed to absolve
others of sin. These three images - saviour, victim and devouring
monster of sin and damnation - are part and parcel of the same
mythic motif. It has speciously been said that Pisces people incar-
nate either to suffer or to save. As a generalisation, it is truer than
most, and it is usually both, for only the injured has compassion.
No sign is so inclined to present itself as life's victim, nor isany sign
so inclined to genuine empathy for suffering. Nor have I seen any
sign so quick to flip into the chaos and orgiastic licence and
dissolution which is embodied in the image of the wild goddess
Atargatis, the watery element out of which, as the Koran tells us,
all life comes.
What does this tell us of the developmental pattern of Pisces? I
think first of all that it implies that the two fishes cannot be
separated. For Pisces, the chaotic world of the Mother is always
uncomfortably close. From those depths Pisces, like Cancer, may
create; there is a long list of musical, artistic and literary 'great
names' who have manifested the sweet and tragic longings of that
watery world with its boundless depths. Most of these people
suffered greatly in their personal lives. This bondage to the world
of the unconscious is no easy task for a man in our culture. It is
often terrifying for masculine psychology to find itself a Son of the
Mother, because dismemberment always looms so close; and even
in artistic creation the experience of death and dismemberment,
for Pisces, is an integral part. I have met many Pisceans who have
tried to become super-rational, intellectual creatures, yet it always
rings a little false, because just beneath the surface lies the
irrational world. Often these Pisceans will become fatally involved
with people who act out the goddess' chaotic world for them; thus
Myth and the Zodiac
261
they touch the depths vicariously, and become the 'nurses' of the
mad. Einstein, a Piscean who made his greatest contribution in
the world of science and mathematics, was an unashamed mystic.
He knew very well whose gift his intuitive insights were. Yet to
live in such proximity to the depths, to be bound to the Mother
with such a cord, is not an easy life. Easier by far is the woman
who
identifies with
the Mother,
and succours the victim-
husband, the lover who has been hurt by life, the sick patient who
needs her care.The frightening shadowy side of this scenario is
that she (or he) may have a great unconscious investment in the
loved one remaining sick. And even if such an identification is
partly successful, there also looms the orgiastic darkness of the
goddess, and her propensity to devour her lover-sons. In our
modern show-business world, we might consider a film star such
as Elizabeth Taylor, herself a Piscean, for the twentieth-century's
enactment of such a role, seeking her redeemer in an absurdly
lengthy list of husband--eandidates.
The planet Neptune, which is the astrological ruler of Pisces, is
not, to my mind, a very good mythic description of the depths of
this sign. Neptune's antecedents lie in the Greek god Poseidon,
Earthshaker and Lord of Bulls. He is an earthy rather than a
watery deity, although he nominally rules the sea; but this latter
domain is taken from the sea goddess Thetis. The oceanic depths
have always belonged to the goddess, as have the depths of the
underworld, and Neptune is a very late arrival. The Babylonian
Ea is a more suitable image, but he cannot be separated from his
mother. If I must choose a single mythic figure who embodies
what I understand to be the curious androgynous complexity of
Pisces, I would look to the god Dionysos, whom Walter Otto in
his study of the deity believes to be an image of 'creative
madness', and whom Kerenyi, in his study, calls 'the irrational
ground of the world'. In the birth, life and attributes of Dionysos
we shall find a vivid description of the daimon who presides over
Pisces, and spans the spiritually sublime world of his father Zeus
(jupiter is the co-ruler of Pisces) and the mad, ecstatic depths of
the Mother.
Kerenyi begins his Dionysos by distinguishing between two
Greek words for life, zoe and bios. Bios carries the ring of char-
acterised life; it is attributed to animals when their mode of
existence is to be distinguished from that of plants. We, of course,
derive our word biology from this root. Zoe, on the other hand, is
life in general, without further characterisation. Animals and
plants each have their season and die; but Hfe as zoe is infinite, and
does not encompass death. It is the life-force which sustains
through the cyclical changes of forms. Kerenyi quotes KarlOtfried
262
The Astrology of Fate
Muller, a classical philologist and mythologist of the nineteenth
century:
Nature overpowering the mind and hurrying it out of a clear
self-consciousness (whose most perfect symbol is wine) lies at
the basis of all Dionysian creations. The cycle of Dionysian
forms, which constitutes as it were a peculiar and distinct
Olympus, represents this nature-life with its effects on the
human mind, conceived in different stages, sometimes in
nobler, sometimes in less noble shapes; in Dionysos himself the
purest blossom is unfolded, combined with an afflatus which
arouses the soul without destroying the tranquil play of
feelings. 136
.
Ifwe can pick our way through the nineteenth-century mannerism
of this description, what seems to be implied is a sense of unity on
the instinctual as well as the spiritual level. It is the state of
participation mystique with nature, with animals, plants and wine,
all of which appear in material identity with the god. This,ecstatic
unity with natural, undying life- best known in individual dream-
image as the orgy - is combined in the personality of the god with
an experience of acute suffering. Dionysos is a sort of shadow-
Christ, a Christ with a phallus, for he himself, like Christ, is both
victim and redeemer.
The mother of Dionysos is variously named in myth. Sometimes
she is Demeter, whom Zeus raped; sometimes Persephone, her
daughter. More usually she isSemele, daughterof KingCadmos of
Thebes, with whom Zeus had a secret love affair. Hera, jealous as
usual, disguised herself as an old neighbour and convinced the girl
to demand that Zeus appear before her in his true form. Semele,
not recognising that this would destroy her, coaxed a promise from
the king of the gods to give her whatever thing she desired, and
then asked him to reveal his godhead. She was already six months
pregnant. Condemned by his own promise, Zeus was forced to
appear as thunder and lightning, and Semele was burned to ashes.
But Hennes saved her unborn son, and sewed him up inside Zeus'
thigh and in due course delivered him. Thus Dionysos was called
'twice-born', or 'the child of the double door'. He is a male born ofa
male, yet he is a womanish god and a god of women, usuaUy
portrayed as an effeminate soft-featured youth. At birth he was a
homed child, crowned with serpents. One of his totem animals is
the goat, symbol of fertility and lustfulness. At Hera's orders the
Titans seized him, and despite his transformations into animal
shapes, tore him into shreds. They boiled the pieces in a cauldron,
while a pomegranate tree sprouted from the soil where his blood
had faUen.
Myth and the Zodiac
263
But his grandmother Rhea rescued him and brought him to life
again. He was raised in secret, disguised as a girl (like Achilles,
who suffered a similar indignity). But Hera found him again, when
he reached manhood, and drove him mad. He went wandering all
over the world, accompanied by his tutor Silenos (a satyr) and a
company of wild Maenads. He taught the art of the vine to Egypt
and India, and then returned to wander around Greece. Eventu-
ally he arrived at Thebes, the place ofhis mother's birth. There King
Pentheus, whose name means 'the one who suffers' (likeDionysos
himself), disliked the god's dissolute appearance, and arrested
him and his shabby train. But Dionysos drove the King mad, and
Pentheus found that he had shackled a bull instead of the god. The
Maenads escaped and went raging out upon the mountains,
where they tore wild animals in pieces. KingPentheus attempted to
stop them but, inflamed with wine and religious ecstasy, the
Maenads, led by the King's mother Agave, rent him limb from limb
and wrenched off his head. Thus he met the same fate as the god
whom he had rejected .
The story of Dionysos is a cruel one, and the god himself
displays a savagery unparalleled by any mythic figure save the one
to whom he is the closest: the Dark Mother as Kali, Bast or
Sekhmet. That Ishould associate this quality ofsavage cruelty with
the gentle and inoffensive Pisces may seem strange; but it isas well
to remember historical Pisceans such as Kemal Ataturk, who in
1915 saw fit to massacre nearly a million Armenians in an act of
genocide nearly comparable to Nazi Germany. Such Pisceans
embody the devouring fish of the sign, the monster Typhon, who
is the perpetual companion of the redeemer. It is the innate
savagery of nature, the crowd which kills Christ, the boar which
rends Adonis, the Death Mother who requires the flesh of children
and the hearts tom out of the breasts of her sacrificialvictims. But
nature can also be loving and benign, and so too can Dionysos. The
sweetness and ecstasy of his rites, which included both the brutal-
ity of dismembered animals and the poignant unity with the
godhead, embodied this ambivalent spirit of nature, the daimon
which is both vicariously destructive yet promises eternal life.
Kerenyi quotes Bernhard Schweitzer:
It is a form of world-experience, one of those great fundamental
forms of man's confrontation with the things that we call 'mysti-
cal' and whose specific nature can only be characterised by the
catch-word 'Dionysian'. 137
The strange link between mysticism, the seeking of union with the
divine, and the bloody cruelties embodied in Dionysos' revenge
upon Pentheus his human double, is one of those paradoxes which
264
The Astrology of Fate
consciousness finds difficult to digest. It is inherent in virtually all
the stories about the saints, which combine the holy with the
vicious and sadistic; somehow these figures belong with the fates
they attract. Ibelieve that in Pisces these two opposites liveside by
side. It might even be possible to suggest that each generates the
other. It is therefore not surprising that many Pisceans flee into the
safety of the intellect to offset this dilemma. The enmity between
Hera and Dionysos, son of Zeus - the youthful god is sometimes
called the 'subterranean Zeus', suggesting an identity between the
two - is the enmity (and love) between mother and son, where the
boundaries between love and hate, possession and destruction,
blur and the erotic becomes the devouring. Dionysos is a Zeus of
women, whereas the Olympian is a Zeus of men. When worship-
ping Dionysos, the women kept to themselves; no man might be
present at the rites. Our word mania is the same as the Greek
mania, which means both raging love and raging hate or anger. The
word Maenad, the female worshipper of the god, comes from the
same root. The god himself is called mainomenos, which means
. raging in the sense of passionate. Redemption from the savagery
of the passions is the task of the son, the redeemer; the passions
themselves are the Mother. Yet in a strange way this god towards
whom the aspirant longs, with whom he seeks unity, is not really a
male deity, and certainly not the patriarchal Yahveh of the Old
Testament or the Zeus of the Greeks. He is an androgyne, as
female as he is male. Both the horror and the longing begin and
end in the same sea. Kerenyi, writing about the ivy and the grape
which are both associated with Dionysos, says:
The growth of the ivy presents only soothing, comforting
features. A special aspect of lifeis here disclosed: its least warm,
almost uncanny aspect, also presented by the snake. Such is zoe
reduced to itself, yet forever reproducing itself. In the ivy, it is
present not as meaning but as reality: not as the meaning of a
symbol or as an allegory for abstract ideas, but concrete and
reassuring despite its inedible bitter fruit. The sweet fruits are
borne by the vine, which with its slow, spreading growth is
capable of imparting the greatest restfulness, and with its
rapidly fermenting juice of arousing the greatest unrest, a lifeso
warm and intense that one living thing inflicts upon another
that which is the irreconcilable opposite of life: death. 138
Whichever part Pisces plays in this mythic drama, he is in reality
all the actors; or, to put it more appropriately, all the actors live
within him. Dionysos the god and Pentheus the scoffing ego who
rejects the dissolute daimon are really the same figure, for both
suffer the same fate: madness and dismemberment. It is the Titans
Myth and the Zodiac
.
265
who destroy the god, and they are of the earth. Perhaps this is an
image of the suffering which the Piscean spirit endures being
incarnated in dense flesh. The flesh can be a prison and a devourer
of the spirit; but the spirit likewise is not only a redeemer but a
devourer of the flesh. Certainly, in Pisces, the two do not get on.
The classic Piscean alcoholic or drug addict, in search of spirit,
dismembers his bodily prison. Yet the invocation of Alcoholics
Anonymous, which has helped so many suffering from this
problem, is to place faith in a power greater than oneself.
Perhaps it is the fate of the Piscean to livewith this extraordinary
daimon, because repudiation of him, as the myth of Pentheus
suggests, can be dangerous. Lifeitself can dismember, if he is not
welcomed. Identification with the figure of the Messiah is also a
Piscean theme. So too is identification with the victim, for as we
have seen they are one and the same. Yet the profound compass-
ion of which Pisces is capable, and its creative access to the depths
of the boundless watery world, are the gifts of enduring the
proximity of such a god.
In the preceding pages we have encountered a number of mythic
stories and figures, each of which personifies a different facet of
the complex dance of life. There are obviously a multitude of tales
which I have left out, but I hope that some flavour has been
imparted of the way in which myth, which seems to express the
meaning and purposefulness of experience, and the astrological
signs, meld together. Although I have, for the sake of coherence,
described each astrological sign's patterns as though it applied
specifically to the sun sign, in actuality this does not seem to be the
case. Although both the sun and ascendant dominate the natal
chart, and the patterns of both these placements are very relevant
to the development of the individual, anything in the chart may be
viewed through mythic eyes. This includes aspects between the
planets, as well as house placements, and it is the very complicated
pattern thus woven which communicates the individual quality of
a particular horoscope. It has been pointed out in various astrologi-
cal texts that a few themes will usually be found to repeat them-
selves when one examines a natal chart closely. The same
statement might be said by, for example, Venus in Scorpio, Pluto
in the seventh house, several planets in the eighth, and so on; and
the primary themes which emerge in this way form the spinal
column of the chart and the main story-line of the individual life.
The same thing occurs when we use myth as an amplification of
astrology. Ifwe look at particular astrological placements from the
point of view of the story as well as from the point of view of
characteristics, then we will usually find within an individual
266
TheAstrology of Fate
horoscope that particular mythic figures and stories repeat them-
selves. In examining the chart of Ruth, for example, the story of
Hades and Persephone is suggested not only by the strong aspects
to Pluto, which opposes the sun and Mercury (the chart ruler),
squares Mars and also squares Jupiter, but also by the Virgo
ascendant, and by the sun in the sixth house, which is Virgo's
natural house. The chart ruler too, which is Mercury, is involved in
the grand cross, and is in exact opposition to Pluto. Thus, although
Ruth is a Piscean, the Plutonian theme is a dominant one in her
horoscope and in her life. This is emphasised by the particular time
at which she came to see me, for the grand cross was being
activated, and thus the mythic themes which pertain to it were
particularly relevant in her life.
One cannot, as I have emphasised, be too literal with myth. But
there are times and situations where the archetypal background to
events and emotions helps the individual to 'see into' what is
happening in a way which lifts the experience out of a cause-and-
effect framework and gives it a deep and timeless dimension. It is
not merely comforting, but sometimes transformative, to sense
and know that we as individuals are part ofa pageant, and that our
little personal problems and dilemmas and sufferings are lent
dignity by the ancient story. In the sense that I have equated myth
with fate and character, the 'story' or 'scheme' is the bridge
between the cherished idea of 'potential' and the concrete reality of
those things we cannot change. The archaic theme of the daimon
which is given to us at birth and shapes our lives from within offers
dignity both to fate and to individual choice, and permits the
possibility of doing 'gladly that which I must do'. I do not know
whether the daimon is really an aspect of Moira, or whether they are
separate things; but although they seem so disparate, my suspi-
cion is that retributive fate and destiny are not so very different
after all. It may be that there is a unity behind them, a central
pattern, which we have yet to explore and contemplate.
PART THREE
Pronoia
9
Fate and Synchronicity
A certain M. Deschamps, when aboy inOrleans, was oncegiven
a piece ofplum-pudding byaM. de Fortgibu. Ten years later he
discovered another plum-pudding in a Paris restaurant, and
asked if hecould have a piece. It turned out, however, that the
plum-pudding was already ordered - byM. de Fortgibu. Many
years aftenvards M. Deschamps was invited to partake ofa
plum-pudding asa special rarity. While hewas eating it he
remarked thatthe onlythinglacking wasM. de Fortgibu. At that
moment thedoor opened andanold, old man in thelast stages of
disorientation walked in:M. deFortgibu, who hadgothold ofthe
wrong address andburst in on theparty by mistake.139
We have travelled a considerable distance in our exploration of
fate, and have left the ancient world behind - or so it would seem .
In the writings oflung we shall find a new word for fate, and a new
concept of the mysterious orderedness of psyche and world; and
this new concept is perhaps more appropriate for an age in which
our increased rational consciousness craves scientific hypotheses
rather than myth. Nevertheless, the experience of fatedness is still
with us, as the edifying story above suggests, and we must there-
fore now consider the difficult concept of synchronicity in order to
understand what depth psychology makes of this issue of fate.
I would like to begin with two stories. The first is from Dr
Gerhard Adler's paper, 'Reflections on "Chance", "Fate", and
Synchronicity'. In this paper, DrAdler writes about the mysterious
occurrence which led to his meeting with lung and his subsequent
training and life work as an analyst.
As a young man I was very fond of dancing and especially of
fancy-dress balls, which were in vogue in the Berlin of the
twenties and early thirties. Ithink itwas in 1928that Ihad danced
270
The Astrology of Fate
through two nights with hardly any sleep. On the foUowing
morning, a Sunday, I was pretty fagged out. SoI was not at all
pleased when the telephone caU of a friend . . . woke me up,
inviting me to a party he was going to throw that afternoon. I
refused, but, in the end, the persuasive power of my friend won
the day and I went. As I entered the room, my then very
susceptible eye was immediately caught by the sight ofa beauti-
ful girl. When my friend introduced me to her, the introduction
went like this: 'Dr Adler - Mrs Adler.' This kind of thing hits
one; at least it hit me . . . We talked quite a bit and were both
quite curious about each other. So we decided to continue our
talk on another occasion. We met again, several times after that.
In short, this first meeting, ifnot yet ofcommon souls but only of
common names, led to a close and most fruitful friendship. But-
and now comes the crunch - as it turned out, my namesake had
seen Jung and was deeply steeped in his ideas. In true anima
fashion, she kindled a considerable curiosity in me about this
strange man and his Analytical Psychology; until then, I had
been much more interested in Freud .. .
'This is how it started' - but what is 'this'? . .. Here the fate of two
people was deeply intertwined in a complex pattern because of
what, in ordinary language, one can only caU a chance meeting.
Chance, fate, nurturing an inner preparednes for change and
direction - how can one disentangle them? At any rate, here we
can discern a 'meaningful coincidence' ofinner fate and external
events. 140
Dr Adler cites other personal examples of this apparent emer-
gence of a secret pattern into ordinary life, where one is given the
feeling that 'something' is at work shaping the direction in which
the individual develops. One can often only see the importance of
such occurrences with hindsight; and these occurrences are not
always as peculiarly striking as the one given above. But the
'chance' meetings which, like the deus ex machina of the Greek
theatre, suddenly appear in one's path and herald a crisis or
change of major import for the future can come in ways other than
meetings with significant people. Sometimes the right book,
virtually 'fallen' from a library shelf, or the right film, which one
has been reluctantly taken by friends to see, or the 'random'
occurrence witnessed in the street, or an impeccably timed acci-
dent or illness, or even an apparently 'bad' event such as theft, can
cast an eerily meaningful aura because it coincides with a time
when inner changes are occurring. At such times the individual is
in some way more receptive to the symbolic significance ofwhat he
has seen or met. The event may mean nothing to others, but to the
Fateand Synchronicity
271
individual in whom it resonates, it provokes a strong sense that
something important is happening, and this feeling is most diffi-
cult to ignore. I have heard it described most often as a feeling of
'fate', as if some nodal point had been reached, some hunch or
intuition surfaced that a crossroads has arrived. Although some
people are perhaps more sensitive to such occurrences than others
- perhaps related to the intuitive function which tends to draw
meaningful connections quite readily - they are by no means
limited to those interested in esoteric arts or depth psychology.
They happen to everybody, and even the most prosaic soul, given
a chance, will have a strange story to tell. These 'meaningful
coincidences' invoke a conviction that another world lies some-
where beneath the apparent one, and intrudes, on suitable occa-
sions, with an experience of fated orderedness.
Dr Adler raises the question of the relationship between the
inner and the outer, and whether these two might not be so
disparate as they at first seem.
Is there some destiny within us that preforms the pattern of our
life, or is it the actual experiences which shape it? Are the
experiences we encounter predestined, or do we feel them so
intensely and remember them so well because ofan inner need?
Or is there a coincidence of inner needs and outer events, an
interconnectedness of within and without, which makes this
division into two spheres irrelevant and even misleading?141
This connection between 'soul' and 'fate' is what I feel to be
embodied in the mythic images which we have been exploring in
the preceding pages. Myths, as we have seen, cross the boundaries
between 'inner' and 'outer', and manifest on both levels. But if
myths reflect a basic pattern, what then is it which fillsthe pattern
in with such peculiar events as DrAdler's meeting with Mrs Adler?
Every astrologer meets the 'intennediate place' of myth in every
horoscope, for the astrological pattern seems to describe both
character and destiny, as though they were the same thing. The
mythic patterns of the zodiacal signs are a particularly clear illus-
tration of how an inner mode of perception and experience coin-
cides with an outer lifepattern. Butsomething 'other' is at work to
provoke the 'meaningful coincidences' which remind us of the
unity of ourselves with our world. lung thought that synchronous
experiences which united inner and outer seemed to rest on an
archetypal foundation. In other words, something is at work that
transcends the artificial division between psyche and 'outer'
physical environment - an inherent ordering pattern which unites
the individual with his concrete life experiences in a common
meaning. I think that most astrologers have experience of this
272
The Astrology of Fate
'archetypal foundation' as a general theory to understand why a
planetary placement or transit or progressed aspect correlates an
inner quality or trend with a particular type of experience. What is
harder to grasp is the specificity of experience, such as the meeting
described by Dr Adler. However causal and mechanistic the
astrologer might become - and some, understandably, seek a
physical 'effect' that the planets might have upon human life- it is
difficult to explain away the awesome and sometimes deeply ironic
occurrences of these 'meaningful coincidences' which lung calls
synchronicity.
The second story with which I would like to illustrate this
experience of 'fatedness' or meaningful order is one about my own
introduction to astrology. Like the fateful encounter of the two
Adlers,
my experience rested upon an apparently 'chance'
meeting, although not with someone bearing my own name.
During the winter break of my third year at university I happened
to be in Boston, Massachusetts, where I made the acquaintance of
someone who was interested in astrology and esoteric philosophy.
At the time I had neither experience nor interest in such things, but
was preoccupied with confusion about my own direction -
whether to pursue psychology or a career in scenic and costume
design for the theatre. I was 'persuaded', unwillingly and with a
certain resentment, to make a visit to my acquaintance's astrologer
- who turned out to be Isabel Hickey, then resident in Boston but
as yet unknown in the larger astrological world. At this time,
nearly twenty years ago, there was no 'larger' astrological world,
in fact, but only individual people studying the subject in a relative
vacuum. Mrs Hickey had a small but devoted circle of students
around her, and an appointment was made to have my horoscope
read.
Naturally the reading interested me, although it was very brief-
only half an hour- and Iwas perplexed by its insight and accuracy:
a familiar enough experience for any layman first encountering the
uncanny revelations of the birth chart. I was certainly deeply
impressed, and forced to consider alternative ways of looking at
things from the behavioural psychological viewpoint which I had
been learning. But the chart reading alone would not have been
sufficient to lead me to study the subject in any depth. Mrs Hickey,
however, seemed to take a pointed interest in me, suggested that I
might do well as an astrological student, and offered to include me
in her classes and provide some private tuition. This idea was met
with enthusiasm on my part, but before I was able to take advan-
tage of her offer, she, for reasons which still remain obscure to me,
reversed her initial interest and took a passionate dislike to me,
insulted me, and barred me from her classes. Iwas not, and am not
Fateand Synchronicity
273
now, astonished that she might have disliked me; after all, I am
probably as dislikeable as the next person. But the intensity and
overt aggressiveness of her attack amazed me. I could think of no
earthly reason for it, nor could my friend, and it seemed very
unlike the wise and compassionate woman whom I had first met
and of whom everyone spoke with respect and fondness. I had
hardly exchanged more than a few sentences with her, and had
certainly not knowingly offended her in any way. Itried to obtain a
copy of my birth chart from her, which was normal procedure for
her students, but was curtly refused . My friend then tried to find
the chart in her office files, to which he had access, but to my
bewilderment he told me that the chart had vanished; everyone
else's was there but my own .
My initial reaction to this rather sore experience, which had
begun so promisingly and ended so embarrassingly, was to
detach myself from the whole thing. I left Boston, and lost contact
with the friend who had first introduced me to Mrs Hickey. But
the thing gnawed at me, and raised rather paranoid fears that she
had seen some horrible thing about me in my horoscope which
had made her recoil, or had foreseen some dreadful fate about
which I could not be warned. I was also quite hurt and, conse-
quently, very angry . The result of this was that I resolved to learn
to set up my own chart, so that I could face whatever nightmare
she might have discerned. As I knew no one who was even
remotely interested in astrology among my fellow psychological
students, I was reduced to having to struggle through what few
books were then available on the subject, most of them rather
theosophically oriented and not very edifying for a psychologist.
Thus I educated myself, through a process of trial and error and
experimentation through discussion with friends whose charts I
had set up. Bythe time I had realised that no monstrous configur-
ation or hideous fate was reflected in my birth chart, I had become
addicted. As Dr Adler writes in his article, "'This is how it
started" - but what is "this"?'
As I look back on this experience, it is apparent now, with
hindsight, that my own confusion about direction and my inner
receptivity to something new entering my life coincided with the
external events just described, in a synchronous way. I stood at a
crossroads, and my fate came to meet me. If I am honest with
myself, I must recognise that the hostile reaction I received was
precisely the right trigger to set me moving along my own path.
Had Ibeen accepted and nurtured as one ofMrs Hickey's students,
it is entirely possible that I would now still be one of Mrs Hickey's
students, continuing to perpetrate, despite her recent death, her
very individual astrological method with its particular blend of
274
The Astrology of Fate
theosophical
thought
and
traditional
astrological
wisdom.
Instead, I was condemned to find my own way and develop my
own insights; and whatever relevance my exploration of psycho-
logical astrology might have for the broader field of the study, it is
unquestionably forged from my own direct experience and obser-
vation, and is not the product of a teacher or a school. Iam deeply
grateful for that, and for the strange encounter I had, unpleasant
though it was at the time and incomprehensible though it still is to
me.
Naturally I was quick to inspect the transits and progressions in
operation at the time of my meeting with Mrs Hickey and its
subsequent repercussions. The most striking transit at work was
Jupiter passing through Gemini and making a direct station on my
natal Uranus in the seventh house. This is a classic representation
of a 'fated' (or synchronous) encounter, which brought opportuni-
ties in its wake but left my life as quickly as it had come. I have
learned since to pay close attention to the transits of Jupiter, for
although they often pass quickly and without any noticeable
concrete benefits for the person who sits waiting for heaven to
shower manna on him, they often coincide with opportunities
which can greatly expand one's vision and understanding. Butone
must act on such openings which appear in the curtain that masks
the inner world. We might do well to remember Zeus, who with
lightning quickness .pursues and mates with his chosen para-
mours, and then vanishes as quickly, leaving them fertilised with a
semi-divine child to bear.
Another relevant aspect in force at the time was the conjunction
of progressed Mercury to natal Neptune in Libra in the tenth
house. This also speaks for itself, for the involvement of the tenth
house suggests a new direction in terms of goaland vocation, or, at
a more profound level, in terms of one's eventual contribution to
the collective. The appearance of Mercury is classically associated
with new interests and spheres of learning, and Neptune, of
course, is associated with aU kinds of occult and otherworldly
things. Reading this particular configuration, I would say that it
reflected a 'right moment' in my development when I was ready,
inwardly although unwittingly, to encounter the imaginal world of
the unconscious and its ancient symbols which would eventually
become my vocation in life. As they say in Buddhist teaching,
when the pupil is ready the teacher appears; although in my case
the teacher disappeared as rapidly, leaving me to find my way
alone.
These two configurations- the transit ofJupiter over Uranus and
the progressed conjunction of Mercury to Neptune - are the
primary indicators of 'something happening' at the time of my
Fate and Synchronicity
275
encounter with Mrs Hickey. They are not immediately recognis-
able as monumentally significant aspects such as one might feel
about progressions of the sun, or transits of the outer planets. I
would be surprised if any astrologer, without hindsight, could
have looked at these configurations and said, ,Ah, this is one of the
great turning points of your life'. This raises an important ques-
tion, which is about the relationship between the 'significance' in
subjective terms of an experience and the apparent strength of the
aspects which reflect that experience in the chart. Ihave found that
these two things do not necessarily coincide. Something other
seems to be involved in how important a particular experience is to
the person, besides the astrological significators; but whatever this
'something' is, it seems to depend upon or to be reflected by an
appropriate planetary movement which provides a channel or a
'timer' for its expression. What this 'something' might be we will
explore in due course, when we come to the issue of fate and the
Self. But as I understand it, the constellation ofarchetypal contents
and synchronous events occurs in co-ordination with planetary
transits and progressions, and the meaning of the experience, and
its essential qualities, are reflected by the planets involved. The
importance of the experience for the individual, however, is not
necessarily in proportion to the 'power' of the transit or progress-
ion according to the conventional astrological rules.
In lung's writings on the subject, he comes to the conclusion that
synchronous happenings tend to occur when the individual is
overcome by emotional affect. He describes this process as follows:
The archetypes are formal factors responsible for the organi-
sation of unconscious psychic processes; they are 'patterns of
behaviour'. At the same time they have a 'specific charge' and
develop numinous effects which express themselves as affects.
The affect produces a partial abaissement du niveau mental, for
although it raises a particular content to a supernormal degree
of luminosity, it does so by withdrawing so much energy from
other possible contents of consciousness that they become dark-
ened and eventually unconscious. Owing to the restriction of
consciousness produced by the affect so long as it lasts, there is a
corresponding lowering of orientation which in its tum gives
the unconscious a favourable opportunity to slip into the space
vacated. Thus we regularly find that unexpected or otherwise
inhibited unconscious contents break through and find expres-
sion in the affect. Such contents are very often of an inferior or
primitive nature and thus betray their archetypal origin. l 42
One of the more obvious situations where we may see this process
of affect breaking through and disorienting the individual's
276
The Astrology of Fate
consciousness, thereby allowing unknown unconscious contents
to rise to the surface, is in the experience of falling in love. This is
extremely fertile soil for synchronous events, as lung found when
he mounted his famous astrological experiment with married
couples. The - to the layman - astonishing correlation of a deep
emotional experience with a highly precise and statistically out-
rageous correspondence of astrological factors between two birth
charts, is familiar to any astrologer who deals with synastry. There
are no particularastrological factors, so far as Ican see, thatindicate
with any assurance that one is going to fall in love, although the
constellation of marriage in lung's survey seems related to
sun-moon conjunctions, trines and sextiles across the charts. But
the state of 'in-love-ness' is not a legalised fact like marriage, and is
experienced differently by different people. Frequently Venus and
Neptune and the moon are involved wheneverany strong affective
state is present, although it may not necessarily be 'love'. But Ihave
seen people declare that theyare in love undersuch stringentconfi-
gurations as sun to Saturn, or Mars to Uranus. It would seem that
the internal constellation reflected by a transit or progression over
some sensitive point in the birth chart, and the outer encounter
with the 'other' who provokes such overwhelming emotion, are
together a prime example of synchronicity. I have sometimes been
awestruck at the mysterious and incomprehensible way in which
people find each other from opposite ends of the earth whose com-
plexes are so beautifully matched, whose parentalbackgroundsare
so eerily similar, and whose charts fit together with such hand-in-
glove tailoring. The beloved object in such circumstances, who is
'responsible' for invoking such an uprush of archetypal imagery, is
rarely human, but more often something semi-divine, because of
the mythic nature of the projection and the numinosity which
accompanies such experiences of the deep inner world. Such
encounters are usually called 'fated' because that is how they feel.
It is difficult to refute this, because there is certainly a sense of
'rightness' about such meetings not only in terms of their effects in
the immediate present, butalso in terms of theirinfluence upon the
course of both people's development.
As I understand this process in relation to astrology, a particular
placement in the birth chart reflects a particular 'pattern' or
'psychic organisation' within the individual. Such patterns, which
I understand to be both the core of mythic stories and also the core
of whatlung calls complexes, are, in a sense, fate, because they are
written from birth. Neptune placed in my tenth house, moreover,
is different from Neptune in someone else's ninth house, so this is a
highly individualised fate. I am 'destined' to encounter Neptunian
experiences, and to make Neptunian themes manifest, in the
Fate andSynchronicity
277
sphere of vocation and contact with the public, as wellas, earlier in
life, meeting the planet through the inheritance from the mother.
Neptune in the ninth house, on the other hand, would be 'des-
tined' to encounter such experiences in the sphere of spiritual and
religious matters, and in the realm of moral and ethical choices.
Thus individuals express universal motifs in highly individual
ways, and the ancient archetypal imagery manifests in highly
personal ways in dreams, as I have shown by numerous
examples.
To follow on from this, a transit or progression triggers, or, more
accurately, coincides with the emergence of this archetypal
potential, and an affect develops. In my case, the sense of confu-
sion and indecision as to which direction to followconstituted the
abaissement which allowed the unconscious to 'slip in' with its
peculiar synchronistic properties. The unconscious was activated
because it was the 'right time'. I am convinced that such timing is
inherent from the birth of the organism, just as the timing for a
tomato plant to flower and produce a fruit is inherent in its nature.
So, as if by chance, I encountered someone who led me into the
next phase of my life, through a 'meaningful coincidence' of an
inner discovery and an outer event. The inner experience, the
readiness to explore the Neptunian world, was reflected outward-
ly by the meeting with Mrs Hickey, and the meaning inherent in
both inner and outer happenings was in turn reflected, in astro-
logical terms, by progressed Mercury conjunct Neptune and tran-
siting Jupiter stationary on Uranus.
Jung felt that 'stuck' situations tended to breed synchronous
phenomena, for the situation of an impasse in lifeconstellates the
compensatory nature of the unconscious, and archetypal dreams
and images tend to arise as a kind of 'way through'. From the point
of view of astrology, however, it is the other way around. It is the
archetype which precipitates the sense of being stuck, for the
appearance of an important transit or progression heralds a pro-
found change in the inner patterning of the individual. Something
new thus tries to enter the life of the ego, something which has
previously been locked in a fairy-tale sleep of unconscious
potential. I feel that it is the collision between this new develop-
ment and the static situation of the environment, which was
previously perfectly satisfactory, that results in the feeling of being
stuck. I have heard so many people use this word at a time when
the chart reflects impending changes of great magnitude that I
have come to the conclusion that 'stuckness' is the preliminary
stage of any important movement in the chart - and in the
individual. One is not stuck unless something moving has
encountered an obstacle. Sometimes the obstacle is a pre-existent
278
The Astrology of Fate
attitude towards life, reflected by an external situation, which
suddenly begins to feel too tight. At such times one often finds
people seeking help from psychotherapy, or paying a visit to an
astrologer, because life has become 'meaningless', or one cannot
find the sense of which way to go. This latter was also the situation
Dr Adler found himself in when he encountered Mrs Adler. He
was 'stuck' in terms of confusion about his direction. Such, too,
was my own situation when I encountered Mrs Hickey. But a look
at the horoscope at such apparently sluggish times usually reveals
that things are far from being stuck or stagnant; they are, in fact,
moving to ripening, and it is the ego which is still tied to its old
outlook yet which feels the buffeting of new winds.
One of the queerest things about synchronous phenomena is the
overriding sense of some kind of apriori knowledge in the uncon-
scious. 'Something' - we are back again to that strange unknown-
knew that in order for Dr Adler to fulfil the requirements of his
pattern he had to get to lung, so 'it' evidently arranged for Mrs
Adler to arrive at the same party, and 'it' also evidently convinced
his friend to throw the party in the first place. This sounds absurd,
but subjectively, it feels that way. 'Something' likewise knew that
in order for me to fulfil the requirements of my own pattern, I had
to encounter astrology, so 'if made sure I was in Boston, brought
me together with the friend who introduced me to Mrs Hickey,
and also caused Mrs Hickey to behave in a fashion guaranteed to
engender a stubborn determination in me to learn something
about the subject which had been dangled and then snatched away
in such a bizarre manner. Likewise 'it' made sure that these
arrangements coincided with a transit and a progression which
precisely fit the meaning of the time.
Now, Irealise that this attributes some fairlyawesome powers to
'it', and it is not surprising that this 'it', when one runs headlong
into its workings, is generally experienced as God. The sense of the
omniscience of the unconscious, without any conceivable causal
basis, gives rise to a peculiar feeling of fatedness when we encoun-
ter synchronous events. 'Something' knows enough not only to
move the psyche, but to move the world of matter as well, or, as it
is put in the film 'E. T.', to 'manipulate the environment'. 'It'seems
to have fingers, if that is the appropriate word, in both the inner
and outer worlds, in the realms of both spirit and matter, as though
there were really no distinction between these opposites. This is
what I understand by lung's term 'psychoid', which he uses to
describe the nature of the archetype: It is a unity which encom-
passes, and transcends the opposition of, psychic and physical,
inner and outer, personal and collective, individual and world.
lung quotes Lao-tzu:
Fate and Synchronicity
279
There is something formless yet complete
That existed before heaven andearth.
Howstill! howempty!
Dependent upon nothing, unchanging,
All-pervading, unfailing.
One may think of it as themother ofall thingsunderheaven.
I do not knowits Mme.
But I call it 'Meaning'.
If I hadtogive it a name, I should call it 'TheGreat'. 143
This is the Tao of Eastern philosophy, which in the West was
known to the alchemists as the unus mundus, the one world, the
interrelated and interconnected single organism oflife.The Greeks
knew it too, as they moved away from Moira's omnipotence, as the
pronoia or nous, the mind of Zeus or God's Providence. Christianity
adopted this concept of God's Providence, and set itagainst the old
pagan view of fate, for although at bottom it is difficult to distin-
guish between the two in terms of 'fatedness', yet the subjective
sense of them is very different. Moira, the feminine face of fate,
was associated with a sense of doom and death, for no 'plan' in a
teleological sense was ever equated with her power; she merely
represented the boundaries of nature. God's Providence, which
has a distinctly masculine feel, has on the other hand the quality of
'order' and 'intent', a movement towards the 'good' (although
how subjective that is may be a matter for some debate), and is
associated with loving care and an omniscient, beneficent Will .
When early religious writers attempted to describe the 'some-
thing' which they envisioned as the unknowable Will of God, or
Providence which arranges the affairs of life, they had a difficult
time articulating the warping of time, space and causality which
any intrusion of this Providence seems to entail. For this reason
God's Providence is referred to as being beyond space and time:
The future, and the past, are all present simultaneously within the
Mind of God, and the whole of creation occurs spontaneously
within the same moment. It isonly the ego, in psychological terms,
which experiences life through a linear space-time continuum,
and when the unconscious erupts into the field of consciousness
with its accompanying synchronous phenomena and its quality of
'absolute knowledge', the experience is one of timelessness and of
preordained fate. Iung puts this as follows:
The 'absolute knowledge' which is characteristic of synchron-
ous phenomena, a knowledge not mediated by the sense
organs, supports the hypothesis ofa self-subsistent meaning, or
even expresses its existence. Such a form of existence can only
be transcendental, since, as the knowledge of future or spatially
280
The Astrology of Fate
distant events shows, it is contained in a psychically relative
space and time, that is to say in an irrepresentable space-time
continuum. 144
This problem of what the religious person understands as God's
foreknowledge led to some rather fiery confrontations in the
course of the development of Christian theology. It was inconcei-
vable to the early churchmen that God could be anything but
omniscient; but if He was omniscient, then He knew what sins a
man would commit in the future, which meant that sin, salvation
and damnation were already predestined. But that smacked too
much of the old pagan concept of fate and the problem of
astrology; and moreover, if a man's sins and salvation were
already written, then there was not a great deal of point either in
making the moral effort not to sin, or even bothering with the
Church's guidance to begin with. Thus something more subtle had
to be thought of, which acknowledged God's Providence while
repudiating fate and the compulsion of the stars . Bertrand Russell
paraphrases 5t Augustine on this matter:
Astrology is not only wicked, but false; this may be proved from
the different fortunes of twins, who have the same horoscope.
The Stoic conception of Fate (which was connected with
astrology) is mistaken, since angels and men have free will. It is
true that God has foreknowledAe of our.sins, but we do not sin
because of His foreknowledge.1
Augustine was profoundly convinced that all men share the sin
of Adam and therefore deserve judgement. Of His great mercy,
however, God predestined some men to salvation; others He
predestined to the punishment which their sin deserved. All men,
being stained by sin, deserve damnation, but God of His free
choice selects some to be saved. Augustine held that God had
predetermined the precise number of those who were to receive
His grace, and not one soul could be added nor taken away from
that elect number. Yet despite this, he declares, angels and men
have free will. This illustrates, I think, some of the difficulties
which arose around the problem of accommodating human
freedom of choice with God's omniscience.
The doctrine of Providence and predestination was also held by
Thomas Aquinas, who like Augustine rejected astrology for the
usual reasons. In answer to the question, 'Is there such a thing as
fate?' Aquinas suggests that we might give the name fate to the
order impressed by Providence, but it is wiser to find some other
term, since fate is a pagan word. This leads inevitably to the
argument that prayer is useful, but Providence is unchangeable.
God sometimes works miracles, but no one else can.
Fate and Synchronicity
281
It seems to me, when initially confronted with this complex
theological vision of a fate which is not fate but behaves like it and
really is it if a different word could be used, that a number of very
eminent Church Fathers were trying extremely hard to reconcile
the experience of fatedness in life with a religious outlook which
had, of necessity, to exclude fate because such a belief eroded the
interest in and dependence upon the Church as a means of
salvation. Just this problem erupted during the Reformation,
when Calvin's belief in the predestination of elect souls removed
the necessity of a priesthood who stood as intermediaries between
men's souls and God. One can understand the theological
dilemma, and can even admire the subtlety of the argument. But
the more I have thought about this issue, the more I feel that the
theological answer to Moira goes somewhat deeper than mere
intellectual juggling to preserve the power of the holy edifice.
That, no doubt, is part of it. But Providence is perhaps not exactly
the same as Moira after all, for Moira's laws, as they are expressed
in Greek myth, are causal. That is, Oidipus is destined from birth
to murder his father and wed his mother, and because this is
written by the hand of fate, he must, out of necessity, fulfil the
oracle. Augustine is at pains to point out that God's foreknow-
ledge does not cause men to sin. It is more like the 'absolute
knowledge' of the unconscious of which lung speaks, which,
because it exists in an 'irrepresentable space-time continuum',
perceives past, present and future simultaneously and creates the
external and internal coincidences of life perpetually afresh in
every moment because every moment is one eternal moment.
Now Jung was exceedingly careful to insist that what he was
describing was the unconscious, not God; one could not possibly,
as a psychologist, presume to know the Unknowable. But the
ways in which human beings experience God, as opposed to the
nature of God, is certainly the province of psychology, and this
human experience posits a God who manifests through synchron-
icity and appears to possess 'absolute knowledge' yet does not
make men sin in the sense that Moira makes men fulfila particular
fate.
Thus pronoia or Providence became a kind of counterpoint to the
old Stoic concept of heimarmeni, the fate written in the heavens.
Although everything, including salvation, may be predetermined
from the beginning in the Mind of God, it is not the same as
planetary compulsion, because the wiIl of God, in the Christian
sense, does not preordain people to sin; it foreknows their sins,
which is different. Thus the famous Prayer of C1eanthes, which
Russell quotes as an example of pagan belief in Providence, could
as easily be a Christian prayer with a slight change of names:
282
The Astrology of Fate
Lead me, 0 Zeusandthou, 0 Destiny,
Lead thou meon,
Towlultsoever task thou sendest me,
Lead thou meon.
1willfollow fearless, or, if in mistrust
I lag andwill not,follow stillI must.l 46
This echoes lung when he declared that free will is the ability to do
gladly that which one must do.
There seems to be a kind of progression or evolution expressed
in the transition from the causal and concrete fate of Moira to the
synchronous fate of God's Providence. Moira, although less pala-
table to twentieth-eentury consciousness, is easier to understand.
lung's definition of synchronicity is that it is the simultaneous
occurrence of a certain psychic state with an external event (or
events) which appears as a meaningful parallel to the subjective
state. This is, in essence, what we encounter when we interpret
any placement in the birth chart, and in particular when we
consider prognosticative factors such as progressions and transits,
horary charts and solar returns. Like the problem of the young
man who saw Death in the market-place in Isfahan, the problem of
whether a particular situation might be avoided or changed
becomes, in a sense, irrelevant. One might well ask whether, if Dr
Adler had refused his friend's party invitation, some other
'arrangement' might have occurred which sent him off to Zurich. I
have certainly wondered, had I not met Mrs Hickey, what would
have been 'arranged' to introduce me to astrology. But these are
impossible questions, because, as with the peculiarly precise and
'right' images which arise in dreams, the situations which actually
did happen were absolutely and unerringly appropriate for both
person and time.
There are innumerable examples of synchronicity which arise in
astrological work, which any practitioner sooner or later experi-
ences. They are part of the awesome fascination of the study. All
the examples of dreams coinciding with critical transits which I
have cited are set pieces of a synchronous kind. So, too, are the
'ordinary' phenomena which many astrologers and also psycho-
therapists experience which are so difficult to explain to the
layman yet which happen so often that one ceases to question
them but merely laughs instead. Forinstance, one always seems to
attract clients whose problems reflect or constellate one's own,
even if those clients enter one's life through something as im-
personal as an ad in the newspaper. Every analyst has experience
of this sort of thing, as well as the almost magical way in which, if
the analyst succeeds in making some kind of breakthrough or has
Fateand Synchronicity
283
some further insight into his own issues, so do his analysands,
without any word passing between them about it. Here we
encounter the peculiar unus mundus of the unconscious, which
connects analyst and analysand with a left-handed and secret
handshake, so that it becomes difficult, at times, to distinguish
whose psyche is doing what to whom. I have also heard many
colleagues complain of those 'bad weeks' when one's analysands,
one's clients, one's husband or wife, one's mother and even the
teller at the bank become rude, intractable and difficult for no
visible reason; but where, if the horoscope is inspected, a situation
is revealed where the individual is himself undergoing some
important change or crisis and the outer world enacts for him the
nature of his own conflict. These are the times when the 'accidents'
occur, the tax bill comes in the post, the burglar breaks into the
house, the water main bursts and the cellar floods, and one begins
to feel that 'something' is definitely on the hunt.
Common, too, are the 'runs' of clients of a particular sign who
turn up to see the astrologer when a certain movement is occurring
in the astrologer's own horoscope. Ihave noticed that, from time to
time, I will get a series of clients, usually about a dozen, who all
have the sun, moon or ascendant in the same sign, and even the
same degree, one after another; and this happens although the
appointments were made at different times and in no particular
astrological order. When I have examined my own internal issues,
I have usually found that whatever is represented by that particu-
lar zodiacal symbol has some relevance to me at that particular
time. This often coincides with some transit in my own chart,
although not necessarily with anything in my clients'. Icould go on
endlessly about these synchronous situations, for they seem to
flock like crows around astrological and analytic work. Perhaps
this is because these fields require a constant encountering of and
relationship with archetypal material, and once one enters this
archetypal 'field' one rapidly becomes exposed to the strange way
in which it seems to 'order' both outer and inner events.
I believe that the phenomena of clairvoyance also belong to the
category of synchronous events. Methods of divination such as the
Tarot, clairvoyance, the 1Ching and so on, tend to provoke fear and
ambivalence in the layman because of the implication that the
future is fated. Of course, I do not know the answer to this, even
with such a nice term as synchronicity at my disposal. But if we
consider these things from the point of view of depth psychology,
we are not dealing with a 'causal' fate which has written every-
thing from the beginning, but rather with a meaningful connection
between an inner state and an outer happening which becomes
perceptible to the seer because he or she has penetrated into the
o
A
MC
IC
DIAGRAM 1S. Birth horoscope of Jean Bates
b. 10 February 1923
2.30 a.rn.
Hemel Hempstead
Progressions for date of David Bates' death
O II "() 14
1? 16
....1'- 49 ..
]) 27 7' 27 *
15 tt
22
J1 19 }Jf 32
~ 15 'b\
2940-
~
14 "(1 J7
~
9 .sz-07
9 6 tt 48
13
cJ 23'd 4S
A
15
4- 171l\i' 22.,
Me 24 11V'
D
286
The Astrology of Fate
A
DIAGRAM 16. Death horoscope of David Bates
d. 2 October 1978
3.00 p.m.
Wimbledon
archetypal realm. The clairvoyant has therefore by-passed the
ordinary space-time continuum and reached that 'intermediate
place' where past, present and future are occurring at once. Since
this seems to be a sphere of spontaneous creation, it would appear
that the intrusion of consciousness has some effect on that cre-
ation, in the same way that the scientific observer has an effect on
the experiment which he is observing. Thus we have seen how
working on dream material, which is also an intrusion into the
world of the unconscious, affects both observer and observed -
although it is not always clear just who is really the observer or
subject, and who the observed object. If there isany such thing as a
transformation of fate, then herein lies some possibility of it: the
relationship with the archetypal realm. The same thing might be
D
o
Progressions for date of David Bates' death
o 22 t\- 06
1]
1 }Jf 17.
]) 26 b) 36 * 26 II.
32~
6b 27 "() 41
If
~
14 ~ 234
':f 28 ~oo
9 13 t\-
13
~ 14 b)
34.
cJ 23 t\- 03
A
20 1)
2t 2S:5 32
MC 27 1W
Ie
DIAGRAM 17. Birth horoScope of Trevor Bates
b. "
FebruarV '949
4.20 a.m.
London
A
IC
DIAGRAM ra Binh hO-... 0' B"ao Bar..
b. 14 January 1944
3.30 a.l71.
London
o
1'; '9lI 4'.
».«:
Cf 3 ~46.
~7l)08
A
2 ~
'''''''''000 I'; dale0' llaw. 1IaJ... dea'h
o 28~1J
J
4 ;11 '6
db 5 l)
39
9'
7 ~40
9 25 Y 29
(j' '2lI 42
4 2, [)
17,
Me J ~
Fate and Synchronicity
289
said ofan astrological prediction: As long as the individual remains
unconscious, and retains his old viewpoint, then any new inner
development will take a predictable expression, since it can only
manifest itself according to the channels which are available. But if
the movements of the unconscious are able to be received by.the
ego in a spirit of genuine openness, then both partners in the
equation are affected, and it becomes increasingly difficult to
determine in any concretistic way the precise outer expression of
the inner dynamic. I assume this is what the 'blueprint' school of
astrology is trying to express, but what it does not stress is the long
struggle and effort required to make that relationship with the
unconscious psyche. Thus we are back once again to Marsilio
Ficinoand his 'natural' magic, and back also to poor King Henri II,
whose death, synchronous with certain planetary transits, was so
eminently predictable.
Above is given a group of family charts: a man and his wife and
their two sons . I have chosen these horoscopes to illustrate a case
of fate and synchronicity because of the death of the man, whom I
will call David Bates, in a sudden and unexpected fashion. This
event is reflected not only in his own chart, but in the charts of the
rest of the family. We shall see later that it is reflected even in the
charts of the four grandchildren, although they were too young to
fully appreciate their loss and did not know him well. Death, like
birth, is the most archetypal of events. It is experienced by every-
thing living, and its meaning penetrates many dimensions ofinner
and outer life. The occurrence ofdeath in a familyis not an isolated
event happening to one person in a vacuum. It is reflected
synchronously in the horoscopes of every family member,
although its expression varies in each case because the experiences
mean different things to different people. Other circumstances
were also occurring within this family at the time of David Bates'
death which were not causally related but, as we shall see, were
connected in meaning. David died of a heart attack while enjoying
a game of tennis, and prior to this he had suffered no ill health or
symptom which might have suggested such a thing happening to
him at a relatively young age. Yet we shall see that the shadow of
some crisis was cast long before, although perhaps not predictable
in any specific or concrete way. David's physical death was one
event in an interconnected web ofexperiences, inner and outer, all
of which bear the same archetypal stamp of death on one level or
another. I have been fortunate enough, through the officesofJean
Bates- who provided the birth data for her husband and their sons
- to obtain the time of David's death, so that we may also examine
the 'death chart' shown above. This is essentially a horary chart for
the specific time of an event; and this 'death chart' is in itself an
290
The Astrology of Fate
expression of synchronicity, displaying no less than four planets
plus the moon's north node in the eighth house, and Uranus,
fitting for the suddenness of the demise, placed precisely in the
midheaven.
The connections between the charts of the members of this
family are fascinating, and reflect what we have already seen in the
case of the family of Renee, the autistic child: a repeated occurrence
of particular signs, aspects and house placements. That in itself is a
strange piece of synchronicity, for there is no causal basis for such
recurrences, yet they happen anyway. For the moment, however,
I would like to focus on the transits and progressions active in
David Bates' chart at the time of his heart attack. The first and
perhaps most striking progressed aspect in effect was the pro-
gressed sun in 15 Scorpio almost exactly in square to the moon 's
ascending node in the fourth house. We have already met the
rather strange medieval reputation of the nodes of the moon,
where the transit of Saturn over the ascending node in King
Henri's chart was a signal to Luc Gauricus of His Most Christian
Majesty's imminent death. I am not Luc Gauricus, and would be
hesitant to be so literal about planetary movements over the nodes,
but this progressed aspect certainly gives me an uncomfortable
feeling that some inevitable crisis or event is reflected . I do not
have to dwell on the traditional meaning of the fourth house as the
'end of life'. It has other meanings as well, induding the beginning
of life, the relationship with the father, and the relationship with
roots and the inner world. Possibly David Bates had the option of
expressing his progression through any of these levels which
might have been open to him; or possibly not. In addition to the
solar progression, progressed Mars had also moved into 15 Leo,
making an opposition to the node, so that progressed sun and
progressed Mars were also in square. Finally, the progressed node
itself had moved into exact conjunction with natal Uranus, also in
the fourth house.
No doubt Gauricus would have written off David Bates just as he
wrote off the French King, but I am for the moment more con-
cerned with the meaning of these aspects. There iscertainly a smell
of anger and great conflict about these astrological contacts. What-
ever was happening inside David at the time of his heart attack, I
think he must have been extremely frustrated and dissatisfied,
perhaps with the whole edifice of his lifeand the meaning (or lack
thereof) which he found in it. Some necessity for change seems to
have been pressing upon him, with which, due to the intense
reluctance he felt towards all 'inner' things, he apparently could
not deal. This change had begun three years before his death,
when the progressed sun moved into square with natal Uranus,
Fate and Synchronicity
291
the ruler of the fifth house. The sun rules the eleventh and is also
placed in the eleventh; thus a conflict is reflected between David's
goals and activities in society, and his individual development.
This suggests that something was required of him, in the sphere of
individual expression; but because David was not a person who
inclined to 'selfish' introspection, this change or movement into a
new dimension of experience was thwarted. All that he did, at the
time of the progression, was retire; but this retirement was not in
any way reflected by any expansion. It was simply a cessation of
work, while everything else remained exactly the same.
By profession David Bates had been the headmaster of a boys'
school, a vocation which seems to have suited him admirably with
his Virgosun and Cancer midheaven. He liked his work and was in
turn respected and well liked by both his students and his peers.
For a Virgo who has worked all his life at one job in one place, an
event such as retirement is a major crisis, because Virgo tends to
identify with its work and something deeper than a change in
schedule is required to counterbalance what has been lost. This
three-year period in David's life, between the sun-Uranus pro-
gression and the sun-node progression, was a period of complete
reorientation, and an opportunity to find out who one is when the
outer persona has been stripped away. That the persona was
rather obsessively important to David we may deduce from the
placement of Saturn exactly at the midheaven. This suggests, first
of all, an extremely dominant and powerful experience of the
personal mother, emphasised by the presence of the moon-
Neptune conjunction in Leoalso in the tenth house. Later in life, it
reflects a certain anxiety or insecurity about one's position in the
outside world, and a tendency to always try to do the 'right' thing
in the eyes of others. David's feelings about his work are compli-
cated; he found it emotionally fulfilling and gave a great deal of
himself to it, which I understand the moon-Neptune conjunction
to express, but at the same time he clung like the proverbial crab to
'the rules', and could not find it in himself to do or think anything
that was not 'respectable'.
Thus he was unable to take the opportunity offered to him by the
progressed sun-Uranus square. Although he was no longer
holding the same position in society, he tried to retain the same
personality and the same code of ethics. In short, he attempted to
remain exactly the same individual as he was before the sun-
Uranus aspect. My feeling is that a planet such as Uranus demands
the utmost of us, because it attempts to shatter crystallised atti-
tudes and release libido for other purposes. If the individual
cannot accommodate this kind of change, then there is usually a
price to be paid later, and in my experience this price is often
292
The Astrology of Fate
physical illness. To put it baldly, because death in David Bates'
chart is reflected as a conflict rather than as a harmonious develop-
ment, I feel he may have died because something in him refused
the new life that was being offered. Now, it can be argued that
death is a 'new life', and that it is not a negative event but merely a
passage. This is the viewpoint held both by reincarnation and by
orthodox Christianity, although the other end of the passage
differs. I am inclined to agree with this philosophical viewpoint in
essentials, and I have no idea whether David was 'fated' to die. But
from what I have gleaned of his history, he was a kind and gentle
man who was too timid to live his life, and he carried with him a
perpetual sense of dissatisfaction and failure. In this case, death
was perhaps less the fulfilment of a lifethan the timely escape from
it. One can sometimes see progressions at the time of death which
reflect a sense of serenity and fulfilment; death is then shown as a
gift, the flowering of a full life. In the case of David Bates, the
progressions are turbulent, and reflect death as a conflict.
The transits across David's chart at the time of death further
increase my sense of some unresolved conflict finding the only
possible outlet. These transits are, in fact, the 'death chart' illus-
trated. It will be apparent if this chart is examined that a solar
eclipse occurred earlier in the day of David's demise. This eclipse,
which conjuncted transiting Mercury and transiting Pluto, landed
with the accuracy of a Sidewinder missile on David's natal
ascendant. The eclipse also fellin square to the Mars-Saturn-Pluto
conjunction at the midheaven. Now, we have had some dealings
already with Mars-Saturn-Pluto, in the examples of Timothy S.
and Angela. I do not need to elaborate here on the suppressed
intensity and passion reflected by the configuration. Whatever else
solar eclipses might mean, they are, in essence, a new moon, and
therefore reflect a new beginning, the end ofone cycleand the start
of another. As the ascendant is the most intimate point in the
horoscope, reflecting the birth of the individual and the myth and
mirror of his essential outlook on life, this eclipse seems to have
synchronised with a time when David's old attitudes, represented
by the planets at the rnidheaven, were being challenged. Mars-
Saturn-Pluto in Cancer is a good deal more frustrated and circums-
cribed than Mars-Saturn-Pluto in Leo, which can at least vent its
anger through eruptions of temper. But the sensitive and retiring
nature of Cancer virtually guarantees that the dominant planet in
this conjunction will be Saturn, holding all the passions and
ambitions in check lest ripples be made in worldly standing. David
Bates was an excellent headmaster in the opinion of everyone who
knew him; but he himself felt that he had never been able to
achieve the recognition or power he craved. I would guess,
Fate and Synchronicity
293
although Jean Bates would not discuss it and I did not probe, that
David felt impotent in a good many senses of the word, not least in
terms of his effect upon the world and in terms of his essential
masculinity. In his marriage, he appears to have been the more
flexible and submissive partner. David's will and passion and
self-assertiveness had always been tightly bound by the voice of
collective authority represented by Saturn; and it was this voice
which was being challenged. Another and perhaps more Plu-
tonian view of this would be that David's bondage to his mother
and the codes of behaviour which she set for him had extended
throughout his life, in both profesionaland personal spheres; and
that bondage now had an opportunity of loosening, with all the
attendant consequences.
Four months before his death, Pluto had been stationary in 13
Libra, in exact square to Saturn at the midheaven. This was the
fourth time that Pluto had passed this point, the culmination of a
long and subterranean process of change. During the three years
between the retirement and the death, or, astrologically con-
sidered, between the sun-Uranus and sun-node squares, Pluto
crossed the natal ascendant several times as well, making two
stations on it. As Pluto is placed in the ninth house in the birth
chart, this transit carries with it the implication of questioning
one's philosophical and moral outlook, and gradually becoming
aware of the more ambivalent aspects of a God which, to David
Bates, had always been summum bonum, nothing but good. Once
again, Iam left with the sense that David, in the time subsequent to
his retirement, had begun to glimpse a few things about himself
and his life, and did not like what he saw. Perhaps he had begun to
experience anger at the lack of real freedom or individuality in his
life, or at the way in which he had so often trapped himself in the
name of collective morality. As we shall see, the cross-aspects
between David's chart and Jean's are by no means easy, and the
conflicts between them were being stirred up during this three-
year period of reorientation. Butfar from coming out into the open,
these conflicts were stringently suppressed by both parties.
Perhaps David needed his heart attack because the only alternative
to it was a different kind of death, which he could not coun-
tenance.
It is also interesting to note that transiting Saturn had entered
David's birth sign and was approaching the conjunction of his sun
and Venus in Virgo in the eleventh house. As Venus is the
ascendant ruler, and as the eleventh house concerns, among other
things, one's vision of the future and one's contribution to group
goals, it would seem that a period of necessary depression and
re-evaluation was occurring.
David's lifestyle and
persona,
294
The Astrology of Fate
however, would not have permitted him to undergo a 'good'
depression in order to find out what he was about when he was no
longer a headmaster with a job which provided him with his life's
meaning. He may also have begun to experience a sense of
difficulty in his marriage, which is typical of Saturn over Venus,
but was atypical of David, who colluded with his wife to present to
the world's eyes a 'perfect' marriage. Saturn generally presents to
Venus insights into relationship and the limitations of love -
another's and one's own - and requires a certain 'separateness' to
occur, so that the realities of both people can be accommodated
within the relationship. This couple, however, tended to live as
one amorphous unit, with no visible separatene-ss either of a
physical or a psychic kind .
I realise that what I have said about David Bates sounds as
though I feel his death was in some way a failure, an inability to
resolve a conflict. That is not in accord with Moira, whose laws
require that all mortal things die; nor is it in accord with any more
pragmatic view which sees death as a physical event occurring, in
this case, 'by chance'. But this particular death has a strange feeling
about it; it seems to have provided the way out of an impasse. I do
not think it was a 'failure', for things could not really have been any
different. Given the tenor of the birth horoscope, it is not surpris-
ing, with the gentleness and refinement of the temperament, that
any overt or aggressive changes would have frightened David, and
would not have been allowed to enterconsciousness. Ifcharacter is
fate, then David's character fated David's death, which was the
inevitable result of character colliding with its own enforced
growth. The sun conjunct Venus and the moon conjunct Neptune
combine with the Libran ascendant and Cancer midheaven, all
conspiring to make David a thoroughly decent person who dis-
liked quarrels, hated hurting people, avoided conflicts whenever
possible through mediation and discussion, and refrained from
opposing the general trend. Thus, his death is not a 'failure', but a
psychic necessity. But IfeelIcan be excused for probing what other
possible kinds of death might have been available, had David
brought more consciousness to bear on his situation. Perhaps he
would still have had to die; one simply cannot know.
One further transit needs to be mentioned before we tum to the
'death chart' and the horoscopes of the rest of the family. This is
the conjunction of transiting Jupiter to the natal moon in Leo. This
conjunction was almost exact at the time of death, and, with ironic
predictability, occurred in the sign which for millennia has been
associated with the physical heart. Here we meet another evidence
of synchronicity: the relationship between a psychic predispo-
sition reflected by a zodiacal sign, and an organ in the physical
Fateand Synchronicity
295
body. To say that Leo 'rules' the heart implies a causal situation.
But it would seem that whatever archetypal principle Leo repre-
sents, the physical heart and the symbolic sphere of the heart are
united in the same image. We have already explored the myth of
Leo, with its yearning for spiritual redemption and its energetic
pursuit of the source of individuality. At the moment of death,
what seems to have been constellated in David Bates was an
intense longing for renewal of love and life. Ordinarily, Jupiter
over the moon would seem a 'good' aspect, because it 'opens the
heart'. But the sudden uprush of vital life reflected by the transit
could evidently find no outlet of expression; it proved 'too much'
for David, and, at the risk of sounding both florid and simplistic, it
would seem that, on some inner level, his heart broke.
The 'death chart' illustrated is no different from the birth chart,
in that it reflects the qualities of the moment. But the birth chart
describes the patterns and internal meaning of David Bates' life,
whereas this other horoscope describes the quality of his death. A
chart such as this one can help us gain insight into the meaning of
an event, not only from the point of view of how the planets affect
the individual's birth horoscope, but also as a description of the
inherent flavour and meaning of the moment of death. It would
seem that the heavens here conspired with David Batesto reflect a
map whose emphasis lies in the realm of death, for four planets,
including the sun, moon and chart ruler (Saturn) all lie in the
eighth house. This is traditionally the house that concerns death,
destruction, regeneration, and the meeting with the 'other' in the
depths of oneself. It is largely a harmonious map, with no oppo-
sitions and only two squares. But there is something extremely
uncomfortable about that clustering in the eighth house. Taken
merely as a moment in a day, this chart, to put it crudely, suggests
that it was a good moment for someone to die.
Marc Edmund Jones, in his book Horary Astrology, makes the
following comment about the principles by which such maps of an
event operate:
The question often raised by a non-astrologer is the practical
proposition:how can this patterning ofsome trivial lifesituation
have its reflection in the heavens? The answer is found in the
general concordance of events in an orderly universe or integral
energy system.147
Thus the principle of synchronicity in the quality of the moment is
as relevant as synchronous phenomena in relation to an individ-
ual. Some moments are more 'death-filled' than others, and this is
one of them. The presence of death is not linked with David's
horoscope specifically, but is a property of the particular point in
296
The Astrology of Fate
time when he died. That this 'death-filled' moment also affects
his own horoscope very precisely (with aspects such as Jupiter
exactly conjunct moon) makes it even more awesome. I can no
more explain the reason for such coincidences than I can explain
why chickens come from eggs.
David's 'death chart' is the chart not of a person but of a
moment, and therefore we cannot interpret it according to the
patterns of human psychology. In many ways, such a chart is
barer, more stark, because it is not filled out with human flesh.
The peacefulness of this horoscope, with its many sextiles and
lack of oppositions, reflects with eerie precision the peacefulness
of David's demise. As far as types of death are concerned, the
sudden fatal coronary is probably one of the least unpleasant;
thus the sun, moon, Mercury and Pluto all in conjunction in Libra
are in sextile to Neptune, suggesting a tranquil slipping away .
The jarring note in the chart is the exact conjunction of Uranus
with the midheaven. But this is appropriate for the suddenness of
the event, and appropriate, too, for the separation from loved
ones through death suggested by the conjunction of Uranus and
Venus in Scorpio. Thus the 'death chart' tells us very literally
what kinds of patterns or archetypal influences are at work in the
moment, I have felt for some time that the midheaven, as one of
the four angles of the chart, was concerned not only with voca-
tion and with mother, but with the process of physical manifest-
ation, perhaps even more so than the ascendant - which is
usually taken to be the point of birth. Some years ago I collected
data on the times of several severe earthquakes, and found that
Uranus appeared consistently in the midheaven. This led me to
think about the midheaven in connection with manifest events.
Further research with composite horoscopes led me to discover
that at the time that a potential relationship concretises, there is
often a powerful transit over the midheaven of the composite
chart. As a result of these and other observations, I am convinced
that this angle of the horoscope is related to things coming to
birth in concrete reality. Thus the midheaven represents not only
mother, but mother as body, and the physical characteristics of
the individual are often reflected by the sign and planets at the
midheaven more strongly than by the ascendant. In other words,
the midheaven is the place of outward manifestation, and the
Mars-Uranus-Venus conjunction at the midheaven of David's
'death chart' suggests a sudden, violent, separative event occur-
ring in the outer world at that precise moment. The event of
physical death, reflected by the placement of Uranus at the mid-
heaven, could only 'happen' in a literal sense at the precise
moment when that planet reached the midheaven - which in turn
Fateand Synchronicity
297
'happened' to coincide with the precise moment of David's
coronary.
There is certainly something very strange and unsettling about
the testimony of this'death chart'. The implication is, of course,
that every moment carries its own pattern, and some moments are
more fraught or powerful than others. Perhaps we are in some way
'sensitive' to the eternally moving round of the heavens so that
what we do is always appropriate for the moment; or else, because
we ourselves are part of that unified life which also includes the
heavens, we and they coincide. Thus, ifsome archetypal configur-
ation such as death is reflected in the heavens - as it obviously was
at the time of David's demise - then those individuals in whom the
same archetypal configuration is also constellated will respond
with an experience of death on some level at that moment. We
may toss about that word synchronicity because it sounds so much
more rational, but what it feels like is simply fate.
I would like to look now at the horoscope of Jean Bates, whose
own experience of her husband's death is reflected in very differ-
ent ways. Oddly, the transits and progressions active at the time
do not involve the seventh house, as might be expected with an
event such as the death of the partner. Rather, they emphasise the
fourth house, through the conjunction of progressed Mercury to
natal Mars in 14 Aries in that house. Now I do not think even Luc
Gauricus would have read 'husband's death' out of that one, but
what I read, although it may initially sound strange, is a crisis
involving father and roots. I can only deduce from this that for
Jean, her husband was a father figure more than he was a husband,
and his primary significance was the providing of home, roots and
security. We shall see as we go along if this surmise is in any way
supported by other aspects. What the progression in Jean Bates'
chart states is: a father figure, rather than a husband, is in crisis or
trouble . As Mrs Bates adored her own father and despised her
mother, it is not surprising that such an element would have
become an integral part of her married life.
If one wished to be literal, one could interpret David's fourth
house Uranus as a fate of sudden death, a sudden ending to life. 1
have met some very old people with Uranus in the fourth,
although that does not rule out the possibility that when they go,
they will go suddenly rather than lingeringly. Likewise one could
look with literal eyes at Jean Bates' Venus, the ruler of the seventh
house, ir. opposition to Pluto in the eighth, and read a fate of the
death of the partner. Certainly Jean did not give me the impression
of being a person who would have permitted Pluto into her
marriage in any other way. It was a 'perfect' marriage, and any
darkness or destructiveness was entirely unconscious and covert.
298
The Astrology of Fate
This natal oppositon of Venus and Pluto was triggered by the
eclipse in 9 Libra which fell on David's ascendant and which also
fell in Jean's tenth house. This eclipse, along with transiting Pluto,
also collided with the natal Mars and progressed Mercury. As
Jean's Venus-Pluto is mixed up, in cross-aspect, with David's
Saturn-Mars-Pluto conjunction by square, we may surmise that
there might have been some less than perfect elements at work in
this relationship; a rather turbulent emotional and sexual situation
is suggested between them through David's Saturn exactly square
to Jean's Mars and Jean's Saturn widely square David's Mars. This
is a basic 'marriage problem', each partner being inclined to
frustrate and anger the other one. What is curious is that the entire
web of .aspects between the two charts was being constellated by
the transiting sun-moon-Mercury-Pluto configuration at the time
of the death. I am not sure how to read this, but I suspect that,
mixed up with whatever other fate and motives might have been at
work in this death, David Bates left his wife in the only way he
knew how.
Another interesting feature in Jean's horoscope is that, at pre-
cisely the same time that the progressed sun squared Uranus in
David's chart and he retired, Jean was experiencing the progressed
sun in square to Pluto. She, too, was undergoing profound
changes; a death of some kind loomed on her horizon too, three
years before the event. She told me that during this period she was
quite 'ill', suffering from swoons and fainting fits which produced
no medical diagnosis. We cynical analytic folk would tend to look
at the emotional side of such symptoms, particularly as they were
occurring during a time which Jean described as 'wonderful',
when she and her husband were especially close and were never
out of each other's sight. The progressed sun in square to Pluto
describes the death of the partner more accurately than the aspects
in force at the time of the actual death, and this is very mysterious.
It is as though something died, for her, earlier and coincident with
the time of David's retirement. This is what I meant by the shadow
of this death being cast long before. Perhaps, now that her
husband was no longer swathed in his collective garments, she
was faced with the challenge ofgetting to know him, and confront-
ing darker elements in her own feelings towards him. The pro-
gressed sun in square to Pluto suggests a period when an
individual is confronted with all that is dark, primitive and
unknown about his own nature. My feeling is that Jean Bates could
not, or would not, look at these things; hence the 'blacking out'
symptoms which she manifested at the time, which, taken as a
symbolic picture, could not be a better description of 'going
unconscious'.
Fate and Synchronicity
299
A crisis seems to have loomed for both these people, who
certainly, in their fashion, loved each other deeply, but who were
ill-equipped to cope with the more convoluted unconscious
aspects of themselves and their relationship. For this they can
scarcely be 'blamed', since the values and standards with which
both had been brought up had hardly prepared them for the
seamier side of marriage as personified by Pluto, which aspects
both Venus and Mars in both charts. Without spending a further
fifty pages on the particular psychological complexions of the
couple, suffice it to say that David's experience of mother and
therefore of women is reflected in his horoscope as extremely
powerful and very manipulative; while his experience of father
and therefore of the possibilities of his own manhood is reflected as
frustrated and disappointing. Jean, on the other hand, has an
image of the mother similar to her husband's, for both have Saturn
in the tenth house; and her image of the father also is not dissimilar
to her husband's, for her sun is in opposition to Neptune, sugges-
ting idealisation and adoration masking a sense of loss and disillu-
sionment; while Mars in the fourth opposite Saturn and in square
to Pluto suggests a covert violence and powerful unexpressed
sexuality connected with the father. Thus both people have the
same pattern: a repressive and powerful mother, and a frustrated
and angry father who appeared 'weak'. Perhaps, for each of them,
the other was experienced as a surrogate parent, a not unusual
situation in many more conventional young marriages. This inces-
tuous and deeply unconscious tie did not break until David
'retired' in both senses of the word under his sun-Uranus pro-
gression, and began to break free. The atmosphere in a house
where two people are never out of each other's sight and are
simultaneously undergoing major solar progressions to outer
planets cannot have been peaceful. ButJean Batescould remember
nothing wrong at all, save that she kept inexplicably fainting.
The transit of Pluto which had been crossing David's ascendant
and squaring his Saturn at the midheaven had also, as I men-
tioned, been opposing Jean's natal Mars and triggering both the
Mars-Saturn conjunction in the birth chart and the Mercury-Mars
progression. This once again implies a situation of frustration and
deep anger, and a need for change and release. I would guess that
David and Jean were beginning to discover all kinds of deep
grievances towards each other, although neither party was able to
deal with such emotions. Jean is a very characteristic Aquarian,
who would never dream of saying a hurtful or selfish thing to
anyone. Her outlook is positive and benign, and there is little sign
of the Scorpio ascendant, or of the Venus-Mars-Pluto T-cross
which is present in her chart. But this strong Plutonian component
300
The Astrology of Fate
in her suggests that she must have made her feelings known
through the atmosphere and in aU kinds of covert ways, and those
feelings must have been very potent indeed. The swooning fits
usually accomplished their purpose on the surface, for her
husband was always extremely attentive, caring and devoted
when she felt 'ill'. On some other level, however, he was no doubt
exceedingly angry. I can only surmise what this death meant to
Jean on levels other than the conscious one. Of course, she was
plunged into a period of grief and disorientation afterwards, for he
was the most important thing in her life. But my sense is that this
death was also the loss of a battle, for her husband had succeeded
in slipping out of her grasp; and thus it was a final breaking free
from her increasingly urgent and angry need to possess and, in
consequence, a rejection on the deepest level.
There are other transits which are no doubt relevant in these two
charts, and I have not touched at all on the midpoints which might
be involved, nor on other methods of prognostication such as
primary and tertiary progressions, or solar and lunar returns. But
the aspects which I have mentioned tella remarkably vivid story of
death on many levels, occurring - or trying to occur - over a
considerable period of time. When one considers that the timing of
these aspects was inherent at the birth of both people, it is even
more striking to observe the enmeshed cross-aspects occurring at
the time of the death. I am not suggesting that marital problems
were the 'cause' of David's coronary. But I am suggesting that the
rising to the surface of these problems, and the psychic necessity of
change, were synchronous with the death.
I would now like to consider the experience of the father's death
in the horoscopes of the two sons, beginning first with the younger
son, whom I will callTrevor. Oddly, no major progressed aspects
are in evidence in Trevor's chart at the time of his father's demise.
Both sons had removed themselves from the family in a rather
telling fashion - although not telling to Mrs Bates. Trevor had
emigrated to Australia and his brother Brian to America some
years before the event. Thus, at the time of death, Trevor was not
embroiled in the family's problems, although certain aspects in the
birth chart, such as the moon in square to Neptune and the sun in
opposition to Pluto, suggest that the dilemmas which his parents
could not themselves solve have passed down to the next gener-
ation. Trevor also has the telltale Mars-Saturn contact, which he
shares with both parents, and which isa kind of 'family signature'.
But there was one major progressed aspect in effect the year before
the death: the sun had moved into 21Piscesand was makinga trine
to the natal moon in 21 Cancer in the seventh house. This aspect,
which is generally considered to be a harmonious and stabilising
Fate and Synchronicity
301
one, suggests that Trevor's life was actually moving in very
constructive directions, and that he was experiencing a period of
personal happiness both professionally and in his marriage. This is
interesting in light of the difficulties which his parents were
experiencing, as though his own 'inner marriage' of sun and moon
represents a kind of separation from the family web and a healing
of his own internal split between mother and father - suggested by
the quincunx between sun and moon. I have often found that the
death of a parent coincides with a time in the child's life when a
separation internally from that parent has occurred . Thus the cord
which binds parent and child on an unconscious level has broken,
and both are left free to pursue their own fates. Ihave had occasion
to watch this process at work in my analysands, where the
unconscious begins to throw up symbols which seem to concern
the internal separation from a parent months before the actual
death occurs. Only with hindsight does it become apparent that
some inner knowledge of the approaching death is already at
work; or, looked at another way, that the internal freeing from
parental bonds synchronises with the external experience of the
loss of the parent.
Trevor's relationship with his father, as reflected by the birth
chart, was not a close one. The fourth house ruler, Mars, is in
opposition to Saturn in Virgo in the eighth house, suggesting that
the more structured and earthy side of his father (who was a Virgo)
was the facet most in evidence for this younger son, and that it was
not entirely well received. When we come to examine the chart of
Brian, the elder brother, we shall also find an eighth house
Saturn; thus both sons reflect a certain distance or loss surround-
ing the experience of the father. The aspects between Trevor's and
David's charts are also rather difficult, and suggest an opposite-
ness and great difference in outlook. For example, David's moon-
Neptune
conjunction
in
Leo
falls
opposite
Trevor's
Venus-Mercury
conjunction
in
Aquarius,
suggesting
an
emotionality and self-centredness in the father which collided with
the rationality and detachment of the son. Trevor's natal sun in
opposition to Pluto also suggests a difficult experience of
fathering, because of the element of power and struggle for
dominance which is implied; it seems as though Trevor has
inherited what his father David Batescould not express of his own
Plutonian forcefulness. I would guess that the wilfulness and
passion and dominance of the Mars-Saturn-Pluto conjunction at
David's midheaven, although unexpressed in ordinary life, was
very apparent to his son, and contributed to Trevor's unpreceden-
ted move to Australia.
The transits are more revealing than the progressions, when we
302
The Astrologyof Fate
examine what was effective in Trevor's chart at the time of the
death. One of the aspects which is most striking is the coincidence
of David's demise with the tail end of Trevor's Saturn return.
Although the exact conjunction had already occurred two months
preceding the death, Saturn was still within orb, and the entire
period for several months previous and several months following a
Saturn return carries the essential meaning of the transit. One
feature of this cycle, which affects everyone at roughly the same
age, is that it signifies a kind of 'growing up', a movement away
from the values and standards of the family and an affirmation of
one's own standpoint and outlook. It is a psychological hardening,
a maturation which enables the individual to leave some of his
parental dependencies behind, to cope better with the external
world and its demands and limitations, and to accept one's own
nature, flaws as well as strengths, in a better spirit. Thus, David
Bates' death isshown as a deeply symbolic as well as a literal event,
because on an inner level the father was already dying - the old
standards and values were dropping away - and this internal
change was accompanied by the toughening and isolation of a son
growing from boyhood to manhood. Trevor was at this time
already a father himself, and was beginning to become successful
in his chosen field ofchemical research. In some way David' 5 death
seems to have represented for him a freeing from the old Saturnian
Terrible Father who held him back, and a simultaneous birth of a
more positive Saturnian principle within himself which enabled
him to move forward in the world .
Thus Trevor was already in a process of separation from the
father during the months preceding the actual death. One of the
motifs in this theme of separation is the motif of worldly failure or
success. David Bates, as I have mentioned, seems to have been
burdened with an acute sense of not having lived his potential in
the world. He died feeling that he had been weak and ineffectual.
How much of an objective truth this is, and how much a subjective
feeling, I cannot tell; but it is apparent that within the family
system, he was certainly the weaker partner in the marriage.
Trevor was, until the time of the Saturn return, burdened with a
similar feeling, for he had shared these sentiments with his mother
from time to time. This sense of impotence is characteristic of
Mars-Saturn, which both son and father have in the birth horo-
scope. After the Saturn return, although the inner implications of
this aspect are by no means solved and present a lifetime's chal-
lenge, it became easier for Trevor to become successful and to feel
'potent' in worldly terms, for he was no longer so identified with
his father.
Other transits are in evidence in Trevor's chart, although I feel
Fate and Synchronicity
303
that the return of Saturn to its own place in the eighth house is the
most telling in terms of David's death. Jupiter, which had
approached the exact conjunction of the moon in David's chart,
was coming into exact opposition to Trevor's Venus-Mercury con-
junction from the eighth house cusp.This transit has a rather literal
feeling about it: an experience of death disturbs the stability and
security of the second house Venus. Transiting Uranus was also
approaching the exact square to natal Pluto in 15 Leo in the eighth
house; once again, there is the connotation of a sudden experience
of death, a collision with an irrevocable fate of some kind. There
was also a conjunction of transiting Pluto with Trevor's Neptune in
15 Libra in the ninth house. The involvement of the ninth house,
which also occurs in Jean Bates' chart, carries the implication of
some deep change in world views occurring, which had been in
process for some time before the death. Neptune in the ninth house
is an extremely idealistic placement; Trevor shares this attribute
with his mother, who also has Neptune in the ninth in 16Leo.Thus
both begin life with a vision of the cosmos which is blissful and
loving; God is summum bonum and sacrificeand submission are the
requirements of the soul. At the time of David's death, Uranus by
transit was in square toJean's ninth house Neptune; and transiting
Pluto was conjuncting Trevor's Neptune in the same house. Thus
both seem to have been undergoing some deep change in their
religious and philosophical attitudes around the time of David
Bates' death.Jean's childlike vision ofa loving and caring deity was
shattered by the unexpectedness and 'unfairness' of the death;
Trevor's was undermined and subtly deepened during the months
before it. The death did not cause these changes, but it was
synchronous with them; for any sudden and 'undeserved' tragic
event has a tendency to coincide with a time of questioning one's
essential religious beliefs. Once-again the archetype of death is at
work, although in a different sphere.
The elder son, Brian Bates, seems to have registered his father's
death much more strongly than did his brother, for the progress-
ions and transits at the time are extremely strongly marked.
Perhaps the event meant much more to him, and coincided with
more turbulent changes in his own life.The first progressed aspect
we must explore is the opposition of progressed Mercury to natal
Pluto in the ninth house. This aspect, like Jean's Mercury-Mars
progression, could not be construed as a 'death' progression in the
ordinary sense. What it does suggest, however, is a period in
Brian's life when he began, perhaps unwillingly (squares and
oppositions usually reflect reluctance to deal with a problem), to
encounter an entirely different dimension of reality. Mercury-
Pluto exposes the individual to the underworld in such a way that
304
The Astrology of Fate
his outlook and attitudes are changed; his opinions about himself
and about life are forced to deepen, and nothing is ever as simple
again. Mercury is placed in the second house in the birth chart, and
rules the eighth; thus the implication is that this profound change
in outlook springs from an experience of loss and disrupted
stability.
Another progressed aspect noticeable at the time is that of
progressed Mars in opposition to natal Venus, also placed in the
second house. This progression coincided with the beginning of
the breakup of Brian's marriage, an event which at first seems
unconnected with the death of the father, but which, as we shall
see, is more closely allied than one might think. Once again a death
is in evidence, but here it is the death of a relationship, and
Mars-Venus contacts are typical reflections of turbulence and
difficulty in this sphere of life. The individual needs are colliding
with the need for security, reflected by Venus, ruling the seventh,
in the second. Brian's marriage was a second-house situation, a
'background' of stability for him. At the time that his father 'left'
his mother, he was in process of leaving his wife. Mars was
progressing through the eighth house, thus underlining the theme
of death, although the death of the father - on a symbolic level in
Brian's case - seems more concerned with an encounter .with a
deeper and more mysterious facet of life and with the eruption of
emotional elements that had previously been unconscious. Like
his father, Brian had made a 'perfect' marriage. Also like his father,
the archetype of death, constellated so powerfully in this family,
seems to have activated in him a bitter realisation that something
was less than perfect in his life. Both, on some level, 'died',
although Brian's death concerned the demise of a persona, a
particular lifestyle and a veneer of social normality beneath which
a great deal had been quietly festering . Jean Bates, in relating this
difficult period in her elder son's life, was visibly upset and baffled
by it, for, as with her own marriage, 'everything had seemed so
lovely'. When I consider all these lives together - Trevor undergo-
ing his worldly initiation, Brian undergoing the death of his old
life, David leaving lifebehind, and Jean suffering from fainting fits,
I am given the strong sense that some essential glue or binding
substance, that previously held this family in an enmeshed and
paralysing grip, had begun to dissolve. This dissolution released
both the sons into different lives, released the mother into
widowhood and a great many disturbing questions, and released
David into death.
One final progression is worth noting in Brian's chart: the
progressed moon had come into exact opposition to the Mars-
Uranus conjunction in 5 Gemini in the seventh house. This aspect
Fate and Synchronicity
305
is classically connected with disruption and separation, and it is
interesting to note that Uranus is the ruler of Brian's fourth house-
the house which concerns the relationship with the father. Brian,
like Trevor, did not experience his father as a sweet-natured,
loving man; here the fourth house ruler is conjunct Mars and in
square to the moon in the tenth (ruling the mother). Thus Brian
seems not to have been oblivious to the undercurrents of battle
which existed between his parents but which everyone was so
careful to ignore. This synchronicity between the loss of a father
and the loss of a marriage reveals that in some fashion the nature of
Brian's marriage was bound up with his parents' marriage - as
though he had tried to eradicate the deep anxiety of Mars-Uranus-
moon by plastering it over with a 'nice' exterior modelled after the
'nice' exterior he observed at home. Thus, with the severing of one
relationship through death, the cord that bound the other was
broken as well. Neither caused the other; but they happened
together. This progressed lunar aspect is the only lunar progress-
ion which shows up in the four charts so farconsidered.Jean Bates
had no lunar progressed aspects in force at the time of the death,
nor did Trevor, nor did David Bates himself, although his pro-
gressed moon, had he lived for another month, would have
arrived at the trine to natal Neptune and sextile to natal Mercury . I
am not sure what to make of this absence of lunar progressed
aspects, since the progressed moon is usually an excellent marker
of the ebb and flow of life experience. The only conclusion I can
come to is that Brian was the only immediate family member who
actually felt the impact of the loss of his father at the time it
happened. The others registered it, but perhaps only experienced
it on an emotional level afterwards. This is not uncommon, since
we do not all feel things in the same way at the same time. Often
there is a delay between the time of a concrete experience and the
time that one digests it. The moon is the receptacle of experience
on a feeling level, a 'gut' level as it were, for it digests life's
happenings and makes them personally our own .The lack of lunar
aspects in all the charts save Brian's suggests to me that although
Jean Bates had registered the idea that her husband had died, she
did not feel it or its implications; and indeed, I was given the
distinct impression, when speaking to her, that on some level she
has still not wholly digested this death although several years have
passed. When Iasked her about the funeral, and her feelings about
it, she explained that she had given instructions for her husband's
body to be cremated. None of the family actually went to see the
body before cremation save Brian, which the rest of them all
thought rather odd. It would appear that this death was not wholly
a reality for any family member save him.
306
The Astrology of Fate
Finally, to conclude this exploration of the family charts, one
transit in Brian's horoscope seems relevant. This is the transit of
Saturn over the natal moon and in square to the Mars-Uranus
conjunction, which occurred before the death. Brian's moon in
Virgo links him with his brother, who has Saturn in Virgo very
near it, and in turn with his father, although the orb of conjunction
between Brian's moon and David's sun is technically too wide. But
this transit of Saturn in Brian's chart, like the Saturn return which
was occurring in Trevor's, seems to suggest that Brian had
matured in a rather embittered way in the months before his
father's death. The squares to the seventh house planets reflect the
painful separation which was occurring in his marriage, revealing
conflict between a sense of responsibility and an urgent need for
freedom. But the transit of Saturn over the moon suggests an issue
in relation to the mother. As well as leaving father behind, Brian
was also leaving his mother, for in some sense it appears he had
married her, or her surrogate. A movement away from childhood
and maternal bonds had begun to occur just before David's
demise, combined with an increased need to ground himself in the
world. Brian's chosen profession is that of a solicitor, and it would
appear that the break-up of the marriage and the death of the
father were also synchronous with an increased commitment to his
professional life. Thus both sons were undergoing their own
passage from childhood in the months prior to the death. I am left
with the impression that Jean Bates, who is an extremely needful
and possessive woman and very frightened of letting go of anyone
she loves, had 'lost' both her sons during this time. Although both
had physically separated and put great distances between them-
selves and the family, they had not yet 'left' emotionally; but the
year preceding David's death saw the cutting of these cords. On
some level this must have registered on Jean, albeit unconsciously,
and provoked a certain increase of anxiety and a tendency to
unleash upon her husband the whole battery of her emotional
needs. As he himself was also undergoing a kind of separation, he
was forced into the position of having to confront her, which the
sons, by moving to opposite ends of the earth, had to some extent
avoided doing. Given the choice between this confrontation,
which on an archetypal level is represented by the mythic dragon
fight, and a quick exit, he seems to have chosen the latter, although
I do not mean that he 'chose' in any conscious sense.
I would like to make it clear that the above analysis is not an
indictment of Jean Bates as the 'cause' of her husband's death.
Whatever that death meant, it was reflected in his own chart, in an
uncomfortably 'fated' way, and was therefore his own necessity.
But this brief and in many ways incomplete examination ofsome of
Fate and Synchronicity
307
the dominant influences operating within the charts suggests that
a family complex was beginning to break up, leaving each member
to cope with his or her own emotional issues. Each one responded
according to the individual temperament. jean Batesinformed me,
as a kind of afterthought, that when Brian had returned to America
after the funeral he had written to his mother and related a strange
dream. She had remembered the dream because it was a connec-
tion, albeit tenuous, with the dead man, and made her feel
comforted in some curious way. Brian dreamed that he had been
washed up on a rocky shore from the depths of the sea, and as he
climbed onto dry land he saw his father walking jauntily into the
water. David Bates turned with a smile and said goodbye, with a
gesture that implied it was now Brian's turn to tackle life;and then
he disappeared into the same depths from which the son had just
emerged. This is a deep and moving dream , although its impli-
cations were lost on jean; for it portrays the cycle of life and the
passing on of responsibility from father to son. The mythic theme
behind it is the passing of the old king and the birth of the new one;
and here it is portrayed as a willing acceptance, rather than as a
struggle. I feel that this dream reflects something about this father
and son too in the idea that Brian, in breaking the maternal cords
which bound him both to his mother and his wife, had accom-
plished a task which the father could not do. It is rather Parsifal-
like, for the young man succeeds where the old, sick one cannot.
The dream is a fitting image of the mythic or archetypal patterns at
work within this family at deep and unknown levels, of which the
physical death of the father was only one manifestation.
I would like to close this summary with a brief mention of some
of the synchronous reflections of the event in the charts of the four
grandchildren. I have reproduced these charts below, although we
will only deal with them in a very cursory fashion; but it is of
interest to note the recurrence of signs, aspects and house place-
ments, the reflection of family inheritance and family fate.
Bruce and Sally Bates are the children of Trevor Bates, while
Rupert and Henry are the children of Brian. In Bruce's horoscope,
it will be seen that jupiter is placed exactly at the Ie in Aquarius;
and transiting jupiter was approaching the exact opposition to this
point at the time of his grandfather's death. As the fourth house
concerns the father and the inheritance from the father's line, this
aspect seems appropriate, although Bruce was not personally
much affected by the death, being only, at the time, five years old.
Sally, who was two at the time of her grandfather's death, also
shows this movement across the meridian in her horoscope, butin
her case it is transiting Neptune which was approaching the exact
conjunction with the midheaven and applying to the opposition of
308
The Astrology of Fate
MC
A
IC
DIAGRAM 19. Birth horoscope of Bruce Bates
b. 17 November 1973
5.00 a.m.
Sydney, Australia
D
the moon at the K, Thus in both these children's charts, some
change or crisis is suggested in the sphere of the family, although
they can hardly have been conscious of the deeper implications of
the death. Also, Saturn by transit, which was in 8 Virgoat the time
of David's death, was making an exact square to Sally's natal sun in
8 Gemini. This aspect likewise has traditional associations with the
relationship with the father and with the masculine line, and with
some experience of loss or disappointment.
Rupert and Henry were older and knew their grandfatherbetter;
at the time of his death Rupert was eleven years old and Henry
seven. Saturn, transiting in 8 Virgo, was approaching the exact
conjunction to Rupert's natal Venus; this aspect no doubt reflects
Fate and Synchronicity
MC
309
A
IC
DIAGRAM 20. Birth horoscope of Sally Bates
b. 30 May 1976
12.40 a.m .
Sydney, Australia
D
the emotional hurt and sense of loss at the dissolution of his
father's marriage, for Venus rules the fourth house in Rupert's
chart. But once again the synchronicity of events is shown, for the
aspect coincides with the death of Rupert's grandfather. In
Henry's chart, the powerful opposition of transiting Uranus to the
ascendant is shown, and this too may be taken as a reflection of the
break-up of the parental marriage; but it is also synchronous with
the grandfather's death, for 14Scorpio is the degree which appears
at the midheaven of David Bates' 'death chart'. Henry's ascending
node is placed in precisely the same degree of the same sign as his
310
The Astrology of Fate
A
DIAGRAM 21. Birth horoscope of Rupert Bates
b. 23 July 1967
7.20 a.m.
New York City
o
grandfather's - 15 Aquarius - and it falls in Henry's tenth house,
squared by the transiting Uranus. And once again we find Jupiter
applying to the conjunction of the Ie in 7 Leo. Thus, however we
wish to interpret these transits in the charts of the four grandchil-
dren, one point emerges most clearly: the fourth house is affected
in all four charts, either by a planet approaching the cusp or by a
transit affecting the ruler. This synchronous link-up in all four
charts, showing some crisis or change in the sphere of the father
and the father's line, is rather impressive.
The story of three years in the life of the Bates family, astrologi-
callyconsidered, isa good reflection of the way in which synchron-
icity can display itself. But such
tie-ups are by no means
exceptional or uncommon. They may be met with in every family
Fate and Synchronicity
Me
311
A
Ie
DIAGRAM 22. Birth horoscope of Henry Bates
b. 22 July 1971
1.10 a.m.
New York City
o
whenever an event is of significance to that family as a unit, and
they may be met with in relationships as well where the develop-
ments in the life of one partner synchronise with changes in the life
of the other. Through this great interconnected chain separate
lives are brought together in common meaning, and that strange
unity of substance is revealed which alchemy called the unus
mundus and which lung called the collective unconscious. The
operation of synchronicity is awesome, not least because of that
quality of absolute knowledge which seems to be displayed. As
Aniela Jaffe puts it in TheMyth of Meaning:
312
The Astrology of Fate
The synchronistic phenomena arranged by the archetype often
arouse wonder and awe, or an intuition of unfathomable
powers which assign meaning. In Goethe's view there exists an
ordering power outside man, which resembles chance as much
as providence, and which contracts time and expands space. He
called it the 'daemonic', and spoke of it as others speak of
God.ItS
Whether it is God, 'daemon' as Goethe puts it, or fate, I do not
know. But the experience of 'unfathomable powers' is unmistak-
able, and so is the feeling of a web of some kind with ftlaments that
radiate out into unknowable distances. Unsurprisingly, the spider
is one of the most ancient symbols of fate. This web is what the
Stoics meant by heimarmeni, and it upset the early Church to such
an extent that it was forced to develop the concept of God's
Providence to counteract the sense of fatality which any encounter
with the web provoked. It is exceedingly difficult to penetrate the
apparent paradox here, wherein events 'synchronise' with astro-
logical configurations and internal psychic states because the
'archetype' has been constellated. Yet at the same time those
astrological configurations which are synchronous with events
and inner experiences have been 'ordained' from the moment of
the individual's birth because of the orderly clockwork of the
heavens. In other words, both the causal fate (Moira) and the
acausal (the unconscious) are equally.valid ways of interpreting
experience. The line between Moira and the unus mundus of the
collective unconscious in which the archetypes play is a very thin
one indeed, for it would seem that fate is both causal and acausal at
once, already written yet being written in each moment, irrevoc-
able yetsubject to human tampering. Wehaveexploredtheintricate
web which those 'unfathomable powers' weave, the arrangements
'they' or 'it' make, in some detail. It is now time to consider those
'powers' themselves, or itself, whichlung, during the course of his
life, came to describe as the Self.
10
Fate and the Self
What willyou do, God, should 1die?
Should yourcupbreak? That cupam 1.
Yourdrinkgo bad? That drinkam 1.
1am thetrade youCIlrry on,
With meis allyour meaning gone.
R~iner M~ri~ Rilke
A single theme connects each example of the characteristically
human dilemmas described in previous chapters of this book.
Whether we are considering the difficult inner and outer life of
Ruth, or the impenetrable autism of Renee R., or the melancholy
suicide of Timothy S., or the apparently preordained end of the
French King, Henri II, or the sudden death of David Bates, there is
a sense of order or teleology or necessity surrounding these
examples. Sometimes this order was apparent to the individual
involved in the experience; this was the case with Ruth, who -
although she and I did not discuss her horoscope in our sessions
together - came increasingly to feel that the apparently 'chance'
misfortune of her imprisoning relationship was not so chancy after
all, but was the outward expression of an intelligent 'something'
within her which not only caused her considerable suffering and
conflict, but was also moving somewhere, towards some goal. In
other cases, such as the suicide ofTimothy S. or the death of David
Bates, no such sense of meaningfulness was apparent to the
individual. Butit becomes apparent to the astrologer, when the life
pattern is connected with the horoscope and the synchronicity is
seen between planetary placements and the individual's inner and
outer life. An event isolated from its context seems to be chance,
but when it is placed within the fabric of a total life with its family
background, its particular bias of character, its inner unfolding
reflected in dreams, and its horoscope, then chance becomes a
quite inappropriate word and qualities such as 'inevitable',
314
TheAstrology of Fate
'orderly', 'right': meaningful' and 'necessary' suggest them-
selves. As [ung puts it,
What happens to a person is characteristic of him. He represents
a pattern and all the pieces fit. One by one, as his life proceeds,
they fall into place according to some predestined design.J49
When life deals a harsh and unexpected blow, then we experi-
ence the dark face offate, which the Greeks called Moira. When life
seems to be guiding us towards a goal and fillsus with a feeling of
destiny, then we experience the bright face of fate, which Chris-
tianity calls Providence. The former, faithfully reflected by its
primordial female image, seems stem, pitiless, and without reason
or design related to the individual. Moira, after all, draws her
boundaries without favourites, for they are collective or universal
boundaries, not personal ones in any individualistic sense. The
latter, even if it involves pain, seems ultimately benevolent, fun of
wisdom, and caring especially of the individual. Often both these
facets of fate are experienced at once, and the sense of the two
coming together - or being part of the same whole - is a not
infrequent occurrence in analytic work, where the 'unfair' limita-
tions and hurts and losses of life are gradually related to an inner
pattern which moves towards a goal and slowly enlarges and
enriches the personality. Aniela [affe phrases this coincidence as
follows:
Basically, individuation consists of constantly renewed, con-
stantly needed attempts to amalgamate the inner images with
outer experience. Or to put it differently, it is the endeavour to
'make what fate intends to do with us entirely our own
intention'.ISO
Thus fate, as Chrysippos suggested, seems to embody a duality or
a paradox, because it manifests at one time as a doom and at
another as an act of grace. The problem of this paradox preoccu-
pied lung, who saw in it the reflection of a morally ambiguous
godhead, a deity whose ambivalent face was revealed to the
perplexed Job as both God and the Devil. In [ung's formulation of
the concepts of individuation and the archetype of the Self, these
two disparate threads which weave that dual fate of which Chry-
sippos wrote have been joined together. 'Self' is a marvellous term
to use to unite all the opposites within the complex and paradoxical
human being, and that is precisely, in lung's view, what the Self
does. Ultimately elusive though it may eventually prove to be, it is
worth attempting to explore what he meant by this term in context
of the horoscope. For it is the closest, psychologically speaking,
that we may be able to come towards making sense of those
Fate and theSelf
315
contradictory expressions of fate, and of the equally paradoxical
relationship of fate and free will with which life perpetually
confronts us.
I will first quote one of lung's varied definitions of the Self,
which is rather lengthy but which will help us to grasp what he
means by the term.
As an empirical concept, the self designates the whole range of
psychic phenomena in man. It expresses the unity of the perso-
nality as a whole. But in so far as the total personality, on
account of its unconscious component, can be only in part
conscious, the concept of the self is, in part, only potentially
empirical and is to that extent a postulate . . .
Just as conscious as well as unconscious phenomena are to be
met with in practice, the self as psychic totality also has a
conscious as well as an unconscious aspect. Empirically, the self
appears in dreams, myths, and fairytales in the figure of the
'supraordinate personality', such as king,
hero,
prophet,
saviour, etc., or in the form of a totality symbol, such as the
circle, square, quadratura circuli, cross, etc ... Empirically, there-
fore, the self appears as a play of light and shadow, although
conceived as a totality and unity in which the opposites are
united . . .
The self is not a philosophical idea, since it does not predicate its
own existence, i.e. does not hypostasize itself. From the intellec-
tual point of view it is only a working hypothesis. Its empirical
symbols, on the other hand, very often possess a distinct
numinositu, i.e. an a priori emotional value, as in the case of the
mandala ... It thus proves to be an archetypal idea, which differs
from other ideas of the kind in that it occupies a central position
befitting the significance of its content and its numinosity. lSI
Sometimes Jung writes about the Self as 'an' archetype - that is,
one of the various ordering or patterning factors in the uncon-
scious. Thus, just as Moira is a self-portrait of that primordial
instinct within nature which allots boundaries to material life and
avenges transgression of those boundaries, the Self, with its
impressive range of symbolic representations - diamond, circle,
mandala,
philosopher's stone,
flower,
treasure,
androgyne,
golden ring, etc. - is an image of that instinct within the individual
to evolve into himself, to become the unique and single and
meaningful whole that was always there in potential but which
takes the en tirety of a lifetime - or many lifetimes - even to partially
unfold. Put another way, the Self is an image of the religious
instinct, that aspect of the psyche which aspires to an experience of
316
The Astrology of Fate
unity or divinity. When lung writes about it in this way, the Self is
'the' archetype, the Great Round which encompasses all aspects of
the psyche and welds them into a unique whole. Aniela [affe
phrases it as follows:
The archetype of the self is 'nameless, ineffable', a hidden X
whose concretisations are indistinguishable from God-images
... Individuation has to be understood as the realisation of the
'divine' in man. 152
In formulating this concept of the Selfas the centre of individual
development (and collective development as well, for its images
are 'indistinguishable from God-images'), lung parted ways irre-
vocably with Freud and the Freudians, who have tended to be
unsympathetic to the idea of a 'religious' instinct as basic and as
innate as those biological drives with which psychoanalysis in the
orthodox sense is primarily concerned. Religious aspiration, to the
more reductive-minded psychotherapist, is a 'sublimation'. For
lung, it is no such thing; it is rather an a priori urge within the
psyche, existent from the beginning, to develop in accord with a
unique pattern towards a unique goal (according to the 'will of
God'), and that pattern and goal fulfil not only the urges of the
body but also the urges of the spirit. Thus Moira and Providence
unite within a single centre, which is both corporeal and spiritual,
personal and collective. The following passage from The Develop-
ment of PersortQlity reflects what has been called lung's 'mystical'
view of the psyche:
What is it, in the end, that induces a man to go his own way and
to rise out of unconscious identity with the mass as out of a
swathing mist? Not necessity, for necessity comes to many, and
they all take refuge in convention. Not moral decision, for nine
times out of ten we decide for convention likewise. What is it,
then, that inexorably tips the scales in favour of the extra-
ordinary? It is what is commonly called vocation: an irrational
factor that destines a man to emancipate himself from the herd
and from its well-worn paths. True personality is always a
vocation and puts its trust in it as in God ... But vocation acts
like a law of God from which there is no escape . .. He mustobey
his own law, as if it were a daemon whispering to him of new
and wonderful paths. Anyone with a vocation hears the voice of
the inner man: he is called. 153
Now, there are a number of problems posed to the astrologer by
this thing lung calls the 'vocation' of 'true personality'. When the
Self is described as 'the unity of the personality as a whole', we can
look to the total horoscope as its blueprint, including not only
Fate and the Self
317
signs, planets and houses but also aspects and balances (or imba-
lances) of elements and qualities, lunar phases, every detail, in
fact, that comprises the art of horoscopic interpretation. The Selfis
therefore the entire chart, natal and progressed. But there is a
difficulty in that whatever it is that 'induces a man to go his own
way' does not appear to be in the horoscope. Any experienced
astrologer will have come across those people who, far from
manifesting the highly individual story of the birth chart, do not in
any way resemble it, but are rather likecardboard figures cut out of
a popular magazine or television series with ideas, beliefs and
responses that are wholly collective. There is, to put it baldly,
nobody at home; that is, no individual is at home, but rather a
collective mouthpiece out of whose mouth emerges the family
system of beliefs and values and , on a broader level, the beliefs and
values of the prevailing culture in which the person lives and
works. There is nothing in the horoscope which can tell us why
that person is not expressing his horoscope; but it stares one in the
face from the opposite chair. Thus there is something about the
Self which is not only the totality of the horoscope, but is also more
than the horoscope.
There are also many people at varying stages of individual
expression;one can see the moon active, or the sun square Uranus,
or the Venus at the midheaven, but the Mercury-Pluto conjunc-
tion is nowhere in evidence, nothing has yet been met of the eighth
house Saturn except in its most superficial form, and the fourth
house Mars-Uranus conjunction has completely disappeared.
This is generally where most of us live: in a state of gradual
encounter with more and more of that total personality which first
meets us as 'fate' in the outside world and only latterly, sometimes
with considerable effort, as aspects of ourselves - although no less
'fate'. One of the more interesting features of analytic work to the
astrological eye is the manner in which people become more like,
rather than less like, their horoscopes as consciousness of self
increases. Far from 'transcending' the birth chart, the individual
seems to become more at home in it; he and it begin to fit each
other; and, concurrently, he is more at home in himself as what he
is. This, of course, can occur without any discussion ofastrological
themes, so I can hardly be accused of 'making' my analysands fit
their charts when I have often not seen their charts until years of
work have elapsed. Most particularly, it is the sun sign which
seems to 'shine' increasingly out of the person, as though this
point in the horoscope is above all the individual as 'vessel' of the
Self. But we are no closer to the answer of why one person elects to
make the individual journey and another not.
Another problem which is raised in relation to the Self and the
318
The Astrology of Fate
horoscope is that issue which we have already confronted many
times: Why does a particular astrologicalconfiguration manifest in
one person on one level and in another person on an altogether
different level? Some things in the psyche can undoubtedly be
tampered with, but others cannot; the case history which follows
shortly is an illustration of the latter. Butit would seem, when one
views a lifefrom a broader perspective, that the boundaries which
are given - whetherby Moira, Providence or the Self- are precisely
the right boundaries to facilitate the development of that individ-
ual. It is difficult to describe this unless one has experienced a
feeling of it; but the phrase I have often heard (and myself felt) is
that one would not change any aspect of one's past life, because
somehow it has all 'fit' and led to the present and, beyond the
present, into the future; and that includes the 'bad' or 'unhappy'
pieces, the 'mistakes', the 'wrong choices' as well as the 'happy'
pieces and 'rightchoices'. This profound subjectiveexperience ofa
'fit' does not seem to be bound up with the horoscope; rather, one
feels it about the horoscope, as if that is the chart one would have
chosen, if such a selection were possible. But the chart does not
describe such precise mundane details as the kinds ofsynchronous
happenings we have seen in the preceding chapter. The 'arrange-
ments' which life offers are reflected in meaning by the horoscope,
but not in detail in terms of their actuality. Once again, we meet
with some aspect of the Self which lies beyond the birth chart.
What looks like the grim face of Moira from one point of view
becomes a meaningful design from another, and it does not appear
to be given to everyone to be able to see it from the latter point of
view. Perhaps not everyone needs to; or perhaps everyone could,
but opportunity is lacking, or refused. The same feeling of a 'fit'
emerges when one works deeply with dreams, for a person's
dreams fit that person, and while they seem at first to wind about
in a random and senseless course, they eventually reveala remark-
able order and design, where motifs are met again and again and
themes which appear to havf vanished months before resurface in
perfect juxtaposition, reflecting the changes in consciousness
which have occurred in the interim. It is a running commentary of
life, reported by 'something' inside. There is an inescapable sense
of a superhuman artistry in this weaving. Writing about the
spontaneous fantasy products of the psyche - dreams and 'active
imagination' - lung says:
A dark impulse is the ultimate arbiter of the pattern, an uncon-
scious a priori precipitates itself into plastic form . .. Over the
whole procedure there seems to reign a dim foreknowledge not
only of the pattern but of its meaning.154
Fate andtheSelf
319
This same sense of artistry emerges when the pattern of a life is
considered, as though it were a dream the contents of which are
symbolic as well as literal. But when we look at the horoscope as an
assembly of planetary placements, it does not at first convey such a
sense of weaving. Rather, its components are the differently
coloured threads that 'something' uses to make its tapestry. The
events of 'real' life and the flow of inner images are both regulated
in some mysterious fashion by the Self, and the 'stuff' of which
both inner and outer experiences are fashioned is symbolised by
the horoscope. Sometimes the manifestation is as an outer event,
sometimes as an inner image; and even in considering the world of
concrete happenings, two apparently opposite happenings can be
described by the same astrological configuration. Thus, one man
may experience marriage under the transit of Saturn over Venus,
while another may find himself divorcing,The intrinsic meaning is
the same: it is a coming to terms with the reality of the other
person, and a collision between the ideals of love and the different-
ness of the partner. But these two disparate circumstances, one
often 'happy' and the other often 'unhappy', are individually
tailored for a perfect fit depending on the individual. It would
seem that this thing lung calls the Self makes its arrangements
using the astrological chart as a weaver uses his threads.
I sometimes feel that it is towards this end that the astrologer's,
as well as the analyst's, work is directed: that the individual might
gradually discover, come to terms with, and give his utmost to that
totality of which the horoscope is the tool, the individual the
vessel, and the Selfthe creator. This is a highly subjective issue and
it will be obvious that it is a realm where statistics, although useful
elsewhere, have no place.
Every life is the realization of a whole, that is, of a self, for which
reason this realization can also be called 'individuation'. All life
is bound to individual carriers who realize it, and it is simply
inconceivable without them. Butevery carrierischarged with an
individual destiny and destination, and the realization of these
alone makes sense of life. True, the 'sense' is often something
that could just as well be called 'nonsense', for there is a certain
incommensurability between the mystery of existence and
human understanding. 'Sense' and 'nonsense' are merely
man-made labels which serve to give us a reasonably valid sense
of direction. 155
The feeling of 'sense' as opposed to 'nonsense' is the closest I can
come to describing any experience of the Self at work in life. It is
when something makes meaningful sense to me in terms of mylife,
not anybody else's, that a glimpse is captured of that 'something'
320
The Astrology of Fate
which is both fate and individual Self. Perhaps the 'sense' is
relative and subjective rather than being an inherent property of
objective life. But that makes it no less a psychic reality; and what
exactly is 'objective' life anyway? This point cannot really be
argued to a conclusion; it is like the issue of God, phrased in the
rather florid statement at the beginning of the film The Song of
Bernadette: 'For those who believe in God, no explanation is neces-
sary; for those who do not, no explanation is possible.' Thus any
position in a birth chart may empirically describe character or an
event, but it may be 'nonsense' in that it is merely those things, a
statement of impersonal fate, with which the individual himself
feels no real relationship. He is not a 'co-creator' in his own
universe. Or it may resonate as something deeply meaningful
because it is recognised as part of oneself, rather than something
imposed from 'outside' by those flying pieces of rock we call
planets. This is where Jung's concept of the Self, and the kinds of
inner experiences that individuals have when encountering their
own psychic substance, differ from the old heimarmeni, the univer-
sal 'planetary compulsion' which vented itself upon the sinful
body but could not touch the soul. Put the Selfat the centre and we
are suddenly involved with something deeply individual. This is
no planetary compulsion; the planets merely reflect, or are
symbols of, a pattern which exists in the inner man or woman, and
which is orchestrated through life experience by that archetype
which stands as the essence of his individuality. The planets do not
'compel' contrary to the soul, but rather are the vessels for it.
The chart which follows is that of a woman whom I will call
Alison. She is an astrological client rather than an analysand,
although the inner world of the psyche is not unfamiliar to her
since she works with it herself. Alison is both a singer and a
counsellor with a wide variety of therapeutic skills which she uses
in conjunction with the voice in workshops and individual work.
She is also blind but her blindness is not total and she is sometimes
able to discern light and shadow, movement and colour. The
condition of her blindness began at birth although it took years to
manifest. As she is an exceptionally vitaland creative woman, I felt
it would be of value not only to explore her horoscope but also to
include her own description of her visual loss and the gradual
process of coming to terms with it, for this story reveals not only a
good deal of Alison's character - which will be apparent from her
horoscope - but also that elusive feeling of 'sense' that her life
pattern seems to hold for her. I have therefore transcribed a
conversation with her about the issue of her blindness, because her
own words are much more expressive than my paraphrasing could
be.
Fate and the Self
321
A
DIAGRAM 23. Birth horoscope of Alison J.
b. 13 January 1941
6.00 p.m .
Workington, Cumberland
D
My first question to Alison was about the physical aspect of her
blindness: what is its medical definition, when did it start, what
were her initial reactions to it.
Alison: It's chronic uveitis, which is inflammation of the uvea - the
front wall of the eye. I also have glaucoma now in both eyes
although originally, before 1971, it was only in the left eye. And
there are cataracts in both eyes. There are other minor compli-
cations as well but those three are the main ones. The glaucoma in
the left eye was there from the time I was a baby. That eye was
always slightly larger than the right. Glaucoma is raised interocu-
lar pressure.
322
The Astrology ofFate
Liz: Were youactually born with it?
Alison: They don't know. I may have been . As a very small child it
was obvious in photographs that one eye was slightly larger than
the other. Quite likely I was born with it; nobody knows. Iwas also
very myopic which was what was noticed first. I went to an
ophthalmic specialist because I couldn't see the blackboard at
school, when I was five. I was given glasses then, in 1946. I
probably also had the uveitis then but it was undiagnosed. Not
until my early teens did it actually start making a difference to me,
because I began to have blurring patches. But they always cleared
up. I told my specialist about them. But he just kept changing my
glasses. When Iwas sixteen Iwas doing my mock GeE and found I
couldn't read the papers. So I went to my GP and asked for a
second opinion. The GP sent me back to the specialist. He gave me
tests and came up with nothing.
Liz: I find that very strange, that both glaucoma and uveitis should be
entirely overlooked in thatway.
Alison: I still don't know how all this could have happened, how
they could have missed what was going on. But they did. They
patted me on the head and said, 'It's your age, you'll grow out of
it.' They changed my glasses yet again, so that by now they were
really thick and unpleasant. Then I left school on my specialist's
advice . That was fine with me because I hated school.
Liz: What didyou prefer doing?
Alison: All through my childhood I painted and drew. That was
what my mother did, and that was what Iwanted to do myself. But
fate intervened there too by giving me the most hideous art
mistress imaginable. I was so dedicated to painting and drawing.
But this art mistress was the epitome of a tight-lipped, tight-faced
. . . Everything had to be drawn realistically and she really put me
off it. So, in a funny way, it was right. Rather than going on to art
college, which had always been my ambition, when I came to
sixteen and my specialist said it would actually be better to leave
school, I said, 'Whoopee!' and went off to Liberty's to train as a
fashion buyer. That seemed a good idea, it gave my artistic side
some outlet. But my sight rapidly went downhill then. I was
getting up at half past six in the morning and travelling to London
and tiring myself out, so it really began to show for the first time.
My vision blurred and didn't clear up again. I went back to my
specialist. He still misdiagnosed me. He told my mother, but not
me, that I had retinal detachment in the left eye which was the one
so badly damaged by the glaucoma He sent me off to Moorfields
for a contact lens,
Fate andthe Self
323
Liz: That sounds likea bit offate at work, theconstant misdiagnoses.
Alison: He was the consultant for the whole of Hertfordshire. I
think it was a kind of fate. So that was how I first went to
Moorfields. Talk about fate again! In fact, my first visit to Moor-
fields was to sing at a nurses' party. This was about a month before
I was sent there as a patient. They took one look at me and shook
their heads. I was put on medication, which I've been on ever
since. This was in 1957. I was given cortisone drops as well as a
variety of other drops. They weren't meant to be curative, it isn't
open for cure. But they've kept the inflammation stable for over
twenty years. Then I was in and out of hospital while they
operated on the left eye several times. When I was seventeen I was
in for four months.
Liz: Would yousaythatthiswasthefirsttimeyouhad toface thefact that
thecondition was incurable?
Alison: It's funny, but I have no clear sense of when that actually
dawned on me. There must have been a time, I'm sure. But I feel it
much more as a gradual realisation, because I remember that my
expectation at first was that in six months I'd be able to read again.
I had to give up my job at Liberty's during that time. I looked at
doing teachers' training and applied to a couple of colleges. But
they turned me down without even meeting me because of the
poor eyesight. They wouldn't do that now, actually. They would
have at least given me a chance. So there I was, in and out of
hospital, one operation after another, wondering what my pros-
pects were. I suppose for the first year of that, I did assume that
with enough time and treatment I would get enough sight back to
be able to go to teachers' training college.
Liz: Howdid yourfamily react toall this?
Alison: Luckily, my parents were very accepting and supportive
to me. Ispent days at home, drawing and listening to music. Mum
was at home, and my grandfather. We did a lot of swimming and
walking and cycling through the woods during the summer. Mum
read to me a lot. I did some voluntary work for people at the
hospital. Somehow I never felt at a loss for what to do. But I did
feel very unsure about what the future would hold . At seventeen,
I thought I would marry my boyfriend and that would solve it all.
But that didn't last very long. There was a gradual realisation that I
would probably never be able to read again or do a normal sort of
jobwhere sight was required.
Liz: Howdidyoucope with thatgradual realisation? Didyougothrough
any extremes of emotion about it? Or were you able to accept it more
easily?
324
The Astrology of Fate
Alison: I've gone through very occasional feelings of 'Why me?'
Butvery rarely. Iguess with my kind ofCapricomian practicalityin
facing the realities of the world, I feel self-pity to be such an
eroding thing. It doesn't do anybody any good. Although I do go
into that periodically, the sense of what a useless emotion it is to
regret or resent or be bitter or self-pitying really does catapult me
out ofit pretty quickly. Ihate being in that state. So Ifind resources
inside myself to get away from it. People have said to me, 'Aren't
you angry with your specialist?' or 'Why don't you sue him?' Well,
he certainly did his job badly.
Liz:How does yourattitude towards your visual loss mesh withwlultever
religious or philosophiaJl views you might hold? Has it made you think
about tlult side of things at all?
Alison: Oh, yes, but it's gone through many different phases.
When all this happened in my teens, I was a church-going Chris-
tian, which I had been consciously since the age of thirteen. Bythe
time I was sixteen I was already, in a very unscholarly way,
interested in Paul Tillichand was moving into that less orthodox
realm of Christianity, although I remained a Sunday School
teacher until Iwas twenty-one because I happened to likethe kids.
I went into the Methodist Church for a while and became very
friendly with a woman who had quite severe multiple sclerosis. I
find the 'Thank you, God, for giving me an infinnity to rise above'
attitude pretty sickening. But certainly my beliefs were a support
to me. Bythe time Igave up orthodox Christianity Ihad got myself
a combination of self-resource and other philosophic props.
Liz:WIult about yourwork, once the teachers' training colleges wereclosed
to you?
Alison: I heard about a social work training course, which I
couldn't do until I was twenty-one. But I got a job as a receptionist
at a local factory. For a couple of years that gave me a bit of money
and an identity as someone with a job. I drew and I wrote, and it
was quite a useful transition. Then I applied for the social work
course and moved to London. It gave me something which was a
response to my own dilemma and also work which used my
experience. It gave me the chance to do something challenging.
The whole experience of being four months in hospital, and in and
out of hospital, and being with people when they lost their sight,
made a great impression on me. I used to visit a woman who was
deaf and blind, an old woman, until she died. Spending a lot of
time with someone totallydeaf and totallyblind started making me
think about very deep issues. I went into social work with elderly
blind people. They had such awful lives, in North Paddington and
Fate andthe Self
325
Kensal Rise ... appalling housing conditions, atrocious landlords
... I remember the day the pension went up to £4. Iquestioned my
own role in it, and also where God was in all of it. Iwent through a
period of being quite depressed, although I've never been prone to
depression of the classical sort. Temperamentally that isn't my
style. But the realities I encountered daily were very depressing.
But I sang throughout it all.
Liz: How didyoursinging fit in?
Alison: Ihad already started singing when Iwas sixteen, and Ivery
consciously used that as a channel. Iget tremendous pleasure from
it and I love the positive feedback I get. The necessity to sing was
and is a counterbalance to facing the issue of my own visual loss,
other people's visual loss, death, all those depressing issues. In
19651took to a kind of unorthodox Marxism. But it never sat very
comfortably on me. That lasted for about five years. It was a very
strange period . I was involved with an artistic group of whom the
leader was a singing and theatrical genius. He was also a Marxist. I
got an immense amount out of it. We did recording projects and
radio projects and theatrical projects. That absorbed me creatively
and philosophically for a time. When the Women's Movement
came along, it made much more sense to me than the Marxist view
of the world. Now I've come back to a more holistic understanding
of the world which has helped me to accept things. Once you can
do that, then somehow you find resources in yourself, and you
stop demanding answers and justice. Those questions become
irrelevant. There are no solutions. Taoism attracts me. The more
separate we feel from other people, animals, whatever, the more
we're capable of persecuting and destroying. I suppose lung's
view of things appeals to me. My loss of sight has been very much
part of the thread which has led me to all that.
Liz: Then youfeel it's given yousomething, as well as taken something
away.
Alison: Well, without that problem I certainly would not have had
to face certain kinds of things. It took me into working not only
with blind people but with drug addicts as well. Youreally have to
look death in the face in that work. I went to more funerals in the
four years I worked with them than I have at any time during the
rest of my life. Idon't really think Icame to any genuine freeing up
or acceptance of my blindness though until only about two years
ago. I had the first operation on my right eye then. Any surgical
procedure on an eye as damaged as mine creates a potential for
complete deterioration. It's very risky. I always knew that if I
continued as I was, without any surgery, then eventually the
326
TheAstrology of Fate
cataract would thicken so that all vision would be lost. Then they
could operate to remove it. I could get a considerable amount of
sight back, no one knows how much, or it might pack up alto-
gether. That was the dilemma I always knew I would reach. I
actually had a dream about it. I dreamed I went down to the
operating table and talked to the surgeon about what would
happen when Icame out of the anaesthetic. Either it would be sight
or blindness. But the dream showed no outcome. The eye survived
the actual operation, although I was told later it was very much
touch and go. The pressure went down considerably. But then it
went up again . After the relief it was an awful letdown. For three
days it sat on me like a cloud. During all that time before the
operation there was always the uncertainty of the outcome and it
kept me from being completely present. But going through the
operation, being relieved and then disappointed again, I let go of
something. That's given me a kind of freedom. Of course I don't
want to lose what sight I have left. ButI've stopped worrying about
it. I've also stopped looking for cures.
Liz: Didyou try thealiernatioe medicine field?
Alison: Yes, that was a phase I went through. I met a woman in
California who was in the first stages of glaucoma. She had just
been diagnosed with hardly any visual loss as yet. She had started
seeing various healers, which was also what I had been doing, and
she asked me what my experience of them was like. I had tried
spiritual healers, acupuncture, macrobiotics, Bates method, all
sorts of things. I told her that it had taken up so much time and
energy I just couldn't be bothered any more. Given the diagnosis
that I'd had this condition from birth, to reverse forty years' worth
of that kind of damage just took up too much time and energy. I
told the woman I had come to the point where I just wanted to get
on with living. She was immensely relieved. She was frightened
that her life would become a vendetta against visual loss. It's
difficult to be around the alternative medicine and therapy scene
in California, or in London for that matter, because they're so ab-
sorbed in healing you. I've met people who have been keener on
healing me than I've been myself. It made me wonder who was the
sick person?
Liz:Youfindasimilar thing in psychotherapy, thedetermination tocure
thepatient. It's hard toavoid.
Alison: Yes, but being on the receiving end of it was interesting.
I've been a social worker and a counsellor and a therapist myself,
apart from my own therapy. Soit was quite interesting to meet that
need to cure me. I realised that I myself wasn't that bothered any
Fate and the Self
327
more. Some of the most difficult times I've ever had in relation to
my sight came when Iwas involved with alternative medicine. But
it's got to the point where it's not that important. The visual loss
gives me as much as it takes away.
Liz: Where do you seeyourselfgoing now?
Alison: I did something new recently, at a workshop with Pat
Watts on enacting myths. I actually sang a myth. I read the story
the day before and improvised singing it. It was a wonderful
experience being part of that history from Homer, who was also
blind. It was a different way of seeing the world. I do have a sense
of that now. Mostly through the voice, singing and telling songs
that have mythic qualities. The visual loss has made me acutely
aware of sound and the voice. I'm doing voice workshops now. I
suppose I'm a bizarre combination, someone who's lost her sight
and a therapist and an unaccompanied singer. But there I am.
Alison's resilience and realism speak for themselves. I would
now like to explore her horoscope, both the birth chart and the pro-
gressed planets and transits that were operative between the ages
of sixteen and eighteen. Alisondid not profess to have experienced
any momentous transpersonal insights, nor did she espouse any
particular religious theory to explain or justify her lifepattern. She
is a strong and optimistic person who has dealt constructively with
a difficult limitation, knitting it together with the overall fabric of
her life so that her visual loss is not-the dominant thing about her,
but rather her individual personality itself. This is often not the
case where fate has struck in a person's life,forin many instances it
is the condition which is apparent before the person. I would not
care to offer any theory about whether Alison is 'individuated' or
has 'experienced the Self'. Such phrases, although I have been
using them throughout this chapter, are somehow not appro-
priate. But she is an extraordinarily whole person, who has
managed to put together extremes of both a positive and a negative
kind. Her lifemakes sense to her, and therefore her effecton others
is very marked . She has given up seeking answers, and has
therefore herself become a kind ofanswer; thus whatevershe gives
carries an inner authority with it. As Aniela Jaffe puts it:
As with all questions bordering on the transcendental, the only
answer psychology can give is an antinomian one: man is free
and is not free. He is not free to choose his destiny, but his
consciousness makes him free to accept it as a task laid upon him
by nature. If he takes responsibility for individuation he volun-
tarily submits to the self - in religious language, he submits to
the will of GOd. l 56
328
The Astrology ofFate
Dominating Alison's birth horoscope is the planet Pluto which
conjuncts the ascendant in Leo, conjuncts the twelfth house moon
in Cancer, opposes the sun-Mercury conjunction in Capricorn in
the sixth house, squares the Jupiter-Saturn conjunction in Taurus
in the tenth, trines Mars in Sagittarius in the fifth, and sextiles
Neptune at the end of Virgo in the third. Pluto thus aspects every
planet in the chart save Uranus and Venus, and trines the mid-
heaven as well. I do not need to elaborate on the quality of
fatedness which I feel this powerful Pluto conveys; we have seen
quite a lot of Moira in the first part of the book. Sufficeit to say that
nature's allotment here has some very strong and clearly defined
boundaries, focused particularly in the physical body, as reflected
by the conjunction of Pluto with the ascendant. The birth of the
individual is also reflected by the ascendant, and often when Pluto
conjuncts it the experience of birth has been difficult, or there is an
illness of some kind, or something very wrong in the environment
into which the baby emerges. Something fated - either physical or
psychological - is shown presiding over the birth itself, which
would wield irrevocable influence over the whole of the rest of
life. As the ascendant is also concerned with the capacity of the
individual to express himself outwards into the world, this expres-
sion would be profoundly affected, hampered and altered by
Pluto's position. Although obviously not everyone with a rising
Pluto has a physical limitation such as Alison's, there is usually a
deep and irrevocable limitation of some kind - a birth trauma, a
near death, an illmother who cannot nurse- which leaves its mark
on the individual, blocking or thwarting ordinary expression,
turning him in upon himself in some way, and forcing him into a
transformed vision of life. Thus there seems to be a hereditary or
biological fate at work in Alison's chart, and this is also suggested
by the conjunction of Pluto with the moon in the twelfth. 'Family
karma' of some kind may be in evidence here although its nature
remains a mystery both to me and to Alison. The oppositions of
Pluto.to the pair of Capricorn planets in the sixth house also
suggest that Pluto's fate will work itself out through the body; this
house is concerned, among other things, with the individual's
relationship to his physical vehicle and his daily life. My first
reaction to Alison's horoscope, at the time she originally came to
see me, was to consider this dominant Pluto, and to be left with a
sense that her blindness was a kind of fate; that it would probably
not be affected very much by treatment, orthodox or unorthodox,
and that it was the springboard from which her inner development
would take place. One might look at it as Moira; or one might
suggest that this Pluto is one of the chief tools of the Self in helping
Alison to pursue the 'vocation' of 'true personality'.
Fate and the Self
329
Much of Alison's character as it is expressed through her com-
ments is also evident from the dominant Pluto. Her sunny,
expressive and forthright nature, characteristically reflected by
Leo on the ascendant (Apollo the sun god was the god of music),
has been deepened and introverted by the experience of her
blindness, so that her own limitations have become a means by
which she can enter the imprisoned lives of others. The kind of
work to which she has been attracted - dealing with the handicap-
ped, the damaged and the disturbed - is typically Plutonian. It
would seem that she has accepted willingly the burden and 'task'
which this planet has placed upon her, rather than running away
from it or seeking to 'transcend' it. Perhaps she is too earthy to be
inclined to blot out the implications of human suffering which her
own suffering has led her to face. But I am brought back to the
same question here that I have voiced earlier: What is it that has
allowed Alison to deal with such a formidable placement of Pluto
in almost invariably constructive and creative, rather than life-
denying, ways? I cannot answer this question, at least not from an
astrological perspective, because 'it' is not, in my estimation, to be
found in her horoscope. The dogged persistence and fortitude she
has displayed are typically Capricomian; but dogged persistence is
not really enough. Even her experiences with the doctors, who
displayed a far greater degree of blindness than she herself is
afflicted with, seem to slot into the design; as lung says, 'all the
pieces fit'. Presumably, if Alison's condition had been discovered
earlier, there might not have been quite so much damage to both
eyes. But it would seem from the placement of Pluto that although
some people are able - or are 'permitted' - to find help, orthodox or
unorthodox, Alison was not fated to be one of them. Something
else has been required of her and she has risen to meet its
challenge; but what then has proferred this requirement?
As an earthy sign, Capricorn is more inclined to work out its
issues in practical ways, and is less likely to brood about them and
make an internal Byronic meal out of life. The strongly Saturnian
side of Alison's nature seems to speak loudly when she talks of
self-pity as an 'eroding thing' with which she has little patience .
Thus, whatever blackness and suffering that might have waited to
overwhelm her in connection with the rising Pluto and the moon-
Pluto conjunction has been translated into service to the blackness
and suffering she has found in the world around her. This isalso in
keeping with the sixth house emphasis. Alison's dedication to her
work, and her determination to get on with things in as normal a
way as possible, reflect this earthy quality in her, which is by far
the most dominant element in the horoscope. There is a no-
nonsense quality about earth when it is faced with real emergency;
330
The Astrology of Fate
it tends to simply become too busy to brood. The deep concern for
social problems, and the voyage into Marxism as a potential solu-
tion for them, is also a characteristicalIy earthy approach to life, for
earth does not have much time for grand visions and theories.
Capricorn, in particular, offers its lasting respect to those who
achieve something, who actualIy help in a recognisable way and
contribute to the community; and it is often through this kind of
work that Capricorn learns to respect himself. That Alison did not
stop with the element of earth, but probed more deeply beneath
the surface of things, is perhaps reflected by Pluto in opposition to
the sun and Mercury. Also, her fiery ascendant would eventually
lead her into a more mythic or symbolic world, which appears to be
the direction in which her lifeis now moving in her forties. And the
sun in a grand trine with Neptune and Uranus also suggests that
her vision is considerably greater than the often circumscribed
world of earth. But the core of her is unmistakably Capricornian
and this communicates itself very strongly in conversation. The
myths associated with Capricorn, which I have described earlier,
concern the symbolism of crucifixion and imprisonment, despair
and the finding of unshakable faith in the waste land of material
life. Alison has not only experienced her own waste land but has
voluntarily entered it in terms of the kinds ofpeopleshe has chosen
to help, submitting to the depression and despair which such
encounters inevitably bring. I would be inclined to mistrust many
people who speak of 'acceptance' of a limitation such as blindness,
for often there is a festering beneath which drives them into a kind
of frenzied optimism and programme of concerted dissociation.
But I am inclined to believe Alison, who has, as a good child of
Saturn, paid her dues. She has few illusions about lifeand does not
seem to need the fluffy clouds of esotericism to prop her up. She
has found out how to prop herself up, and the combination of
Saturn and Pluto has produced a formidable survivorwhoalso pos-
sesses the genuine warmth and sense of fun that Leo on the
ascendant represents.
I did not probe Alison about the conditions of her family back-
ground, because she has probed them enough herself in her own
therapy to feel she sees them with reasonable clarity. She experi-
enced her childhood as supportive and does not seem to 'blame'
anybody for herown circumstances. ButIam struck by the Jupiter-
Saturn conjunction in the tenth house which concerns the mother,
and also by the moon-Pluto conjunction which likewise concerns
the mother. Iam given the feeling that some difficult issue lies here
in the maternal background, something with which Alison's
mother perhaps could not cope, but which Alison herself has been
required to contend with. This may possibly be connected with
Fate and the Self
331
those very primitive or passionate emotions of which Pluto is the
astrological significator, and of which Alison herself has her share.
This, along with the condition of blindness, may have also contri-
buted to her choice of working with individuals in a state of inner
despair. I find it extremely interesting that Alison's disability has
forced her away from the artist's life embodied by her mother, so
that her own considerable creative talents have had to be conjoined
with practical service to life. Painting, the mother's vocation, was
not 'permitted'.
Thus, both in character and in the pattern of her life, Alison
reflects her birth horoscope. That in itself is not strange; from the
point of view of astrology, it is what people are supposed to do.
What I am struck by, however, is the quality of consciousness
which Alison has brought to bear on her life, so that it is all 'of a
piece' and 'makes sense'. The placement of the sun gives us a key
to how this 'knitting together' might occur, for it is a symbol of the
ego which is in many ways the vessel or material expression of the
Self. Thus the individual who works to develop the sun is also
moving away from the collective so that he becomes himself and
experiences himself as a separate and unique entity. Placed in the
sixth, the sun in Alison's chart suggests that her unfolding individ-
uality would take place within the sphere of the physical body and
the conditions imposed on it; the working life and the round of
daily tasks; the ordinary affairs which are to be met with in material
living. In short. this is the realm of the goddess Astraea who
governs the orderly patterns of nature. Alison's visual loss has
been a catalyst for increased consciousness of this sixth house
sphere, because material life becomes full of obstacles and chal-
lenges and mysteries rather than being taken for granted. A person
with no visual loss does not think about what his eyes do for him,
but without eyes that apparently banal sphere becomes a profound
dilemma and potentially a place of deep revelation. Thus the Self,
if we consider it from this point of view, makes itself known to
Alison through a striving to cope with the difficulties of the sixth
house realm.
Aniela Jaffe writes about the process of individuation:
Individuation does not consist solely of successions of images
from the unconscious. These are only part of the process,
representing its inner or spiritual quality. Its necessary com-
plement is outer reality, the development of individuality and
its attendant fate. Both aspects of the process are regulated by
the powerful archetype of the self. In other words, in the course
of individuation the self emerges into the world of conscious-
ness, while at the same time its originally psychoid nature splits
332
The Astrology of Fate
apart, so that it manifests itself as much in inner images as in the
events of real life.157
Thus the Self here manifests both as the blindness, which has
forced Alison into a particular path of development, and as the
inner response to that blindness which has led her to find meaning
and creative potential in it.
Among the planetary progressions for 1957, the only aspect in
force during the difficult period when Alison first went to Moor-
fields and underwent her series of operations was progressed
Venus coming into trine with Uranus and then arriving at the
conjunction with the sun. Looked at from an orthodox point of
view, that is hardly the sort of picture which would describe the
difficulties to which she was subject. That she had a boyfriend
whom at the time she thought she might marry is much more in
keeping with these aspects. But viewed from a more unorthodox
point of view, the conjunction of Venus to the sun in the sixth,
which is also the ruler of the chart, suggests a time when Alison's
individuality was just beginning to flower. In short, it marks the
onset of her true development. That this onset was accompanied
by a considerable degree of discomfort and hardship is not told us
by this sole progressed aspect. But I have become convinced that
progressed aspects do not necessarily tell us how something will
feel; rather, they tell us what that something means.
The picture shown by the transiting planets is more edifying
from a literal point of view. As we are looking at a two-year period,
it is the heavy planets which we must consider, since the others
move too quickly to suggest the kind of profound change which
this time in Alison's life portended. The most striking transit is
that of Uranus, which had entered Leo the preceding year and was
hovering about Alison's ascendant. In April of 1957 Uranus was
stationary exactly on the ascendant and conjuncting natal Pluto; it
remained there through June . Uranus, as we have found in other
case histories, has a propensity to drag things out into the light; it
suggests a time of realisation and breakthrough. During this
period the true nature of Alison's condition was discovered; or,
put another way, it was the time when she came to realise the
nature of her fate. Her sight had begun to truly fail during the
period of the transit, and I cannot help but associate the closing in
of the boundaries with the contact of Uranus to Pluto. It is as
though Moira has at last made herself known. Uranus continued
its transit through the first decanate of Leo through the first half of
1958, during which time it also squared the natal Jupiter-Saturn
conjunction, placed in the tenth. Thus Alison was plagued with
the question of what she would do with herself; teachers' training
Fate and the Self
333
college, her initial choice, was an impossibility. Along with the
realisation of the physical condition came conflictsof a tenth house
kind, pertaining to future vocation.
Neptune was also active by transit during this time. It had
entered Scorpio at the end of 1956 and was thus squaring the
ascendant, natal Pluto, and transiting Uranus during the first half
of 1957. It remained in the first decanate of Scorpio, also opposing
Alison's natal Jupiter-Saturn, for a full three years. Along with the
traditionally confusing and bewildering feelings which Neptune
so often throws up during its transits, there is also the implication
of a sacrifice having to be made on many levels. Among other
things, hope of a trouble-free prognosis had to be sacrificed;and all
the profound implications that the giving up ofsight involves were
beginning to be faced. Transiting Pluto was also involved, leaving
the last few degrees of Leo at the beginning of 1957and entering
Virgo in the summer, and beginning its long square to Alison's
natal Mars in Sagittarius which was to last for several years.
Pluto-Mars contacts, as we have seen, raise the issue of frustration
and thwarting of the will and of personal freedom; I would guess
that Alison experienced greater anger and despair during this time
than she is perhaps able to recall. Pluto also transited in trine to the
Jupiter-Saturn conjunction, so that, along with the obstruction to
Mars with its fierce Sagittarian independence, there was also the
gradual formation of a sense of purpose or vocation, beginning
with Alison's decision to train as a social worker and her involve-
ment with other blind people. Finally, transiting Saturn was in the
first decanate of Sagittarius during the early months of 1957,
within orb of conjunction with natal Mars; so the picture of
limitation, curtailment, and a complete rechannelling of energy is
complete.
The involvement of the three outer planets during this time is
quite striking, although not surprising, since I have found that the
outer planets do tend to gather around at particularly 'fated' times
in life. Ido not associate them with any specialspirituality', nor do
I feel that they represent the Self, any more than any other planet
does; but I am convinced that they 'release' fate, in the sense that
they activate the birth chart at a very deep level and reveal its most
profound underlying design. Under the transits of the outer
planets our myths are revealed to us, and the shape of our Moira;
and if anything has been avoided, or remained unseen, or been
disguised, then the outer planets will rip away the veil and expose
the stark outlines of the pattern which we have been given and
within which we must find a way to live.
The question of one's response to one's total life-pattern is really
the issue of how consciousness responds to the dictates of the Self,
334
The Astrology of Fate
the psychic totality. That is in many ways a moral problem, and
inevitably any solutions which are to be found are not going to be
found in collective formulae. The quality which I have been trying
to convey which I feel Alison possesses is a quality of free and
individual response to her fate. There are many ways in which she
might have reacted, but ultimately her morality is her own. As I
understand it, this encompasses the 'free wiD' of which lung
writes, the 'ability to do gladly that which I must do' . This kind of
free will does not come cheap; it is not a 'given'. It has to be fought
for, and the process of that fight is also the process of individ-
uation. Egoand Selfare part ofa totality, but they are not the same;
they eye each other across the court sometimes as lovers, some-
times as enemies, but they cannot be separated.lung describes this
relationship as follows:
The intrinsically goal-like quality of the self and the urge to
realize this goal are not dependent on the participation of
consciousness. They cannot be denied any more than one can
deny one's ego-consciousness. It, too, puts forward its claims
peremptorily, and very often in overt or covert opposition to the
needs of the evolving self. In reality, i.e. with few exceptions,
the entelechy of the self consists in a succession of endless
compromises, ego and self laboriously keeping the scales bal-
anced if all is to go well. 158
Consciousness may identify with its transcendant partner, in
which case there is an inflation, and even a psychosis, wherein the
individual believes he is God, rather than being an individual.
Consciousness may negate the reality of the Self altogether,
although that does not in any way alter the pattern of the psyche,
and then there is an experience of meaninglessness and a feeling of
black fatality when life does not show the proper willingness to
submit to the will of the ego. One may traverse the entire spectrum
in a lifetime. I do not have now, any more than I did at the
beginning, any real answer as to whether we are fated or free, or
what fate is, or whether it can be transformed. But Ifind that lung's
mysterious postulate of the Self describes a great many of fate's
paradoxes, and also contains them in a fashion which does not
split us assunder between fatalistic passivity and arrogant ego-
aggrandisement. That inner authority which may be experienced
in so many ways is difficult for the astrologer to refute as he has a
map of planetary positions which describe its intentions; but
equally it denies the smooth escape into the language of
'potentials', since any encounter with this inner authority does not
feel like tasting a potential, but rather more like colliding with the
will of the gods, or God.
Fate and the Self
335
I feel it is fitting to end, as I begin, with a fairy tale. This one is a
well-known story, and it contains a deep irony. Whether or not it is
realIy about fate, or about the Self, Ileave the reader to decide. But
it is certainly about human nature, which contains a good deal of
both.
THE FISHERMAN AND HIS WIFE 159
Once upon a time there was a Fisherman who lived with his wife in
a pigsty close to the sea, and every day he went out fishing; and he
fished, and he fished. And once he was sitting with his rod,
looking at the clear water, and he sat and he sat. Then his line
suddenly went down, far down below, and when he drew it up
again he brought out a large Flounder. Then the Flounder said to
him: 'Hark, you Fisherman, I pray you, let me live, I am no
Flounder really but an enchanted prince. What good will it do you
to kill me? I should not be good to eat, put me in the water again,
and let me go.' 'Come,' said the Fisherman, 'there is no need for so
many words about it - a fish that can talk I should certainly let go
anyhow.' And with that he put him back again into the clear water,
and the Flounder went to the bottom leaving a long streak of blood
behind him. Then the Fisherman got up and went home to his wife
in the pigsty.
'Husband,' said the woman, 'have you caught nothing today?'
'No,' said the man, 'I did catch a Flounder, who said he was an
enchanted prince, so I let him go again.' 'Did you not wish for
anything first?' said the woman. 'No,' said the man; 'what should I
wish for?' 'Ah,' said the woman, 'it is surely hard to have to live
always in this pigsty which stinks and is so disgusting; you might
have wished for a little hut for us. Go back and call him. TelI him
we want to have a little hut, he will certainly give us that .' 'Ah,'
said the man, 'why should I go there again?' 'Why,' said the
woman, 'you did catch him, and you let him go again; he is sure to
do it. Go at once.' The man stilIdid not quite like to go, but did not
like to oppose his wife either, and went to the sea.
When he got there the sea was all green and yellow, and no
longer so smooth; so he stood and said:
Flounder, flounder in thesea,
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
For my wife,good llsabil,
Wills notas I'd have herwill.
Then the Flounder came swimming to him and said: 'Well, what
does she want, then?' 'Ah,' said the man, 'I did catch you, and my
wife says Ireally ought to have wished for something. She does not
336
The Astrology of Fate
like to live in a pigsty any longer; she would like to have a hut.' 'Go,
then,' said the Flounder, 'she has it already.'
When the man went home his wife was no longer in the sty, but
instead of it there stood a hut and she was sitting on a bench before
the door. Then she took him by the hand and said to him: 'Just
come inside. Look, now isn't this a great deal better?' So they went
in, and there was a small porch, and a pretty little parlour and
bedroom, and a kitchen and pantry, with the best of furniture, and
fitted up with the most beautiful things made of tin and brass,
whatsoever was wanted. And behind the hut there was a small
yard with hens and ducks and a little garden with flowers and
fruit. 'Look,' said the wife, 'is not that nice!' 'Yes,' said the
husband, 'and so it shall remain - now we will live quite conten-
ted .' 'We will think about that,' said the wife. With that they ate
something and went to bed.
Everything went well for a fortnight, and then the woman said:
'Hark you, husband, this hut is far too small for us, and the garden
and yard are little; the Flounder might just as well have given us a
larger house. I should like to live in a great stone castle; go to the
Flounder, and tell him to give usa castle.' 'Ah, wife,' said the man,
'the hut is quite good enough; why should we live in a castle?'
'What!' said the woman, 'Just go there, the Floundercan always do
that. 'No, wife,' said the man, 'the Flounder has just given us the
hut, I do not like to go back so soon, it might make him angry.'
'Go,' said the woman, 'he can do it quite easily, and will be glad to
do it; just you go to him.'
The man's heart grew heavy, and he would not go. He said to
himself: 'It is not right,' and yet he went. And when he came to the
sea the water was quite purple and dark blue, and grey and thick,
and no longer so green and yellow, but it was still quiet. And he
stood there and said:
Flounder, flounder in the sell,
Come, 1pray thee, here tome;
For mywife, good llsabil,
Wills notasI'd have herwill.
'Well, what does she want now?' said the Flounder. 'Alas,' said
the man, half scared, 'she wants to live in a great stone castle.' 'Go
to it then, she is standing before the door,' said the Flounder.
Then the man went away, intending to go home, but when he
got there he found a great stone palace, and his wife was standing
on the steps about to go in, and she took him by the hand and said:
'Come in.' So he went in with her, and in the castle was a great hall
paved with marble, and many servants, who flung wide the doors;
and the walls were all bright with beautiful hangings, and in the
Fate and the Self
337
rooms were chairs and tables of pure gold, and crystal chandeliers
hung from the ceiling, and all the rooms and bedrooms had
carpets, and food and wine of the very best stood on all the tables
so that they nearly broke down beneath it. Behind the house too
there was a great courtyard, with stables for horses and cows, and
the very best ofcarriages; there was also a magnificent large garden
with the most beautiful flowers and fruit trees, and a park quite
half a mile long, in which were stags, deer and hares, and every-
thing that could be desired. 'Come,' said the woman, 'isn't that
beautiful?' 'Yes, indeed,' said the man, 'now let it be; and we will
live in this beautiful castle and be content.' 'We willconsider about
that,' said the woman, 'and sleep upon it.' Thereupon they went to
bed.
Next morning the wife woke first, and it was just daybreak, and
from her bed she saw the beautiful country lying before her. Her
husband was still stretching himself, so she poked him in the side
with her elbow and said, 'Get up, husband, and just peep out of
the window. Look, couldn't we be the King over all that land? Go
to the Flounder, we will be the King.' 'Ah, wife,' said the man,
'why should we be King?Ido not want to be King.' 'Well,' said the
wife, 'if you won't be King, I will; go to the Flounder, for I will be
King.' 'Ah, wife,' said the man, 'why do you want to be King?I do
not like to say that to him.' 'Why not?' said the woman. 'Go to him
this instant; I must be King!' So the man went, and was quite
unhappy because his wife wished to be King. 'It is not right; it is
not right,' thought he. He did not wish to go, but yet he went.
And when he came to the sea, it was quite dark grey, and the
water heaved up from below, and smelt putrid. Then he went and
stood by it, and said:
Flounder, flounder in thesea,
Come, I praythee, here to me;
For my wife, good I1sabil,
Wills notas I'd have herwill.
'Well, what does she want now?' said the Flounder. 'Alas,' said
the man, 'she wants to be King.' 'Go to her; she is King already.'
So the man went, and when he came to the palace, the castle had
become much larger, and had a great tower and magnificent
ornaments, and the sentinel was standing before the door, and
there were numbers of soldiers with kettle-drums and trumpets.
And when he went inside the house, everything was of real marble
and gold with velvet covers and great golden tassels. Then the
doors of the hall were opened, and there was thecourt in alJ its
splendour, and his wife was sitting on a high throne of gold and
diamonds with a great crown of gold on her head, and a sceptre of
338
The Astrology of Fate
pure gold and jewels in her hand, and on both sides of her stood
her maids-in-waiting in a row, each of them always one head
shorter than the last.
Then he went and stood before her, and said: 'Ah, wife, and
now you are King.' 'Yes,' said the woman, 'now I am King.' 50 he
stood and looked at her, and when he had looked at her thus for
some time, he said: 'And now that you are King, let all else be, now
we will wish for nothing more.' 'No, husband,' said the woman,
quite anxiously, 'I find the time passes very heavily, Ican bear it no
longer; go to the Flounder- Iam King, but Imust be Emperor, too.'
'Oh, wife, why do you wish to be Emperor?' 'Husband,' said she,
'go to the Flounder. I will be Emperor.' 'Alas, wife,' said the man,
'he cannot make you Emperor; I may not say that to the fish. There
is only one Emperor in the land. An Emperor the Flounder cannot
make you! I assure you he cannot.'
'What!' said the woman, '1 am the King, and you are nothing but
my husband; will you go this moment? Go at once! Ifhe can make a
king he can make an emperor. I will be Emperor; go instantly.' 50
he was forced to go. As the man went, however, he was troubled in
mind, and thought to himself: 'It will not end well; it will not end
well! Emperor is too shameless! The Flounder will at last be tired
out.'
With that he reached the sea, and the sea was quite black and
thick, and began to boil up from below so that it threw up bubbles,
and such a sharp wind blew over it that it curdled, and the man
was afraid . Then he went and stood by it, and said:
Flounder, flounder in thesea,
Come, I pray thee, here to me;
For my wife, good llsabil,
Wills not as I'd haveherwill.
'Well, what does she want now?' said the Flounder. 'Alas,
Flounder,' said he, 'my wife wants to be Emperor.' 'Go to her,' said
the Flounder; 'she is Emperor already.'
50 the man went, and when he got there the whole palace was
made of polished marble with alabaster figures and golden orna-
ments, and soldiers were marching before the door blowing trum-
pets, and beating cymbals and drums; and in the house, barons,
and counts, and dukes were going about as servants. Then they
opened the doors to him, which were of pure gold. And when he
entered, there sat his wife on a throne, which was made of one
piece of gold, and was quite two miles high; and she wore a great
golden crown that was three yards high, and set with diamonds
and carbuncles, and in one hand she had the sceptre, and in the
other the imperial orb; and on both sides of her stood the yeomen
Fate and the Self
339
of the guard in two rows, each being smaller than the one before
him, from the biggest giant, who was two miles high, to the very
smallest dwarf, just as big as my little finger. And before it stood a
number of princes and dukes.
Then the man went and stood among them, and said: 'Wife, are
you Emperor now?' 'Yes,' said she, 'now I am Emperor.' Then he
stood and looked at her well, and when he had looked at her thus
for some time, he said: 'Ah, wife, be content, now that you are
Emperor.' 'Husband,' said she, 'why are you standing there?
Now, I am Emperor, but I will be Pope too; go to the Flounder.'
'Oh, wife,' said the man, 'what will you not wish for? You cannot
be Pope; there is but one in Christendom; he cannot make you
Pope.' 'Husband,' said she, 'I wiJI be Pope; go immediately, Imust
be Pope this very day.' 'No, wife,' said the man, 'I do not like to say
that to him; that would not do, it is too much; the Flounder can't
make you Pope.' 'Husband,' said she, 'what nonsense! If he can
make an emperor he can make a pope. Go to him directly. I am
Emperor, and you are nothing but my husband; will you go at
once?'
Then he was afraid and went; but he was quite faint, and
shivered and shook, and his knees and legs trembled. And a high
wind blew over the land, and the clouds flew, and towards
evening all grew dark, and the leaves fell from the trees, and the
water rose and roared as if it were boiling, and splashed upon the
shore; and in the distance he saw ships which were firing guns in
their sore need, pitching and tossing on the waves. And yet in the
midst of the sky there was still a small patch of blue, though on
every side it was as red as in the heavy storm . So, fullof despair, he
went and stood in much fear, and said:
Flounder, flounder in thesea,
Come, 1praythee, here to me;
For my wife, good Ilsabil,
Wills notas I'd have herwill.
'Well, what does she want now?' said the Flounder. 'Alas,' said
the man, 'she wants to be Pope.' 'Go to her, then,' said the
Flounder; 'she is Pope already.'
So he went, and when he got there he saw what seemed to be a
large church surrounded by palaces. He pushed his way through
the crowd. Inside, however, everything was lit up with thousands
and thousands of candles, and his wife was clad in gold, and she
was sitting on a much higher throne, and had three great golden
crowns on her head, and round about her there was much ecclesi-
astical splendour; and on both sides of her was a row ofcandles the
largest of which was as tall as the very tallest tower, down to the
340
The Astrology of Fate
very smallest kitchen candle, and all the emperors and kings were
on their knees before her, kissing her shoe. 'Wife,' said the man,
and looked attentively at her, 'are you now Pope?' 'Yes,' said she,
'I am Pope.' So he stood and looked at her, and it was just as if he
was looking at the bright sun. When he had stood looking at her
thus for a short time, he said: 'Ah, wife, ifyou are Pope, do let well
alone!' But she looked as stiff as a post, and did not move or show
any signs of life. Then said he: 'Wife, now that you are Pope, be
satisfied, you cannot become any greater now.' 'I will consider
about that,' said the woman. Thereupon they both went to bed,
but she was not satisfied, and greediness let her have no sleep, for
she was continually thinking what there was left for her to be.
The man slept well and soundly, for he had run about a great
deal during the day; but the woman could not fallasleep at all, and
flung herself from one side to the other the whole night through,
thinking always what more was left for her to be, but unable to call
to mind anything else. At length the sun began to rise, and when
the woman saw the red of dawn she sat up in bed and looked at it.
And when, through the window, she saw the sun thus rising, she
said: 'Cannot I, too, order the sun and moon to rise? Husband,' she
said, poking him in the ribs with her elbows, 'wake up! Go to the
Flounder, for I wish to be even as God is.' The man was still half
asleep, but he was so horrified that he fell out of bed. He thought
he must have heard amiss, and rubbed his eyes, and said: 'Wife,
what are you saying?' 'Husband,' said she, 'if I can't order the sun
and moon to rise, and have to look on and see the sun and moon
rising, I can't bear it. I shall not know what it is to have another
happy hour unless I can make them rise myself.' Then she looked
at him so terribly that a shudder ran over him, and said: 'Go at
once; I wish to be like unto God.' 'Alas, wife,' said the man, falling
on his knees before her, 'the Flounder cannot do that; he can make
and emperor and a pope; I beseech you, go on as you are, and be
Pope.' Then she fell into a rage, kicked him with her foot, and
screamed; 'I can't stand it, I can't stand it any longer! Will you go
this instant?' Then he put on his trousers and ran away like a
madman. But outside a great storm was raging, and blowing so
hard that he could scarcely keep his feet; houses and trees toppled
over, the mountains trembled, rocks roUed into the sea, the sky
was pitch black, and there was thunder and lightning, and the sea
came in with black waves as high as church towers and mountains,
and all with crests of white foam at the top. Then he cried, but
could not hear his own words:
Flounder, flounder in thesea,
Come, 1pray thee, here to me;
341
Fate and theSelf
For mywife, good llsabil,
Wills not as I'd haueherwill .
'Well, what does she want now?' said the Flounder. 'Alas,' said
he, 'she wants to be like unto God.' 'Go to her, and you will find
her back again in the pigsty.' And there they are still living to this
day.
Notes
Introduction
Bertrand Russell, History of Westmr Philosophy, George Allen at Unwin,
London, 1946, p. 237.
2
F. M. Comford, From Religion to Philosophy, Harvester Press, London, 1980,
p.2O.
3
Gilbert Murray, Four Stages of Greek Religion, Oxford University Press,
London, 1912, p. 115
4
Margaret Hone, TM Modmr Textbook of Astrology, L. N. Fowler at Co. Ltd,
London, 1951, p. 17.
5
Jeff Mayo, Astrology, Teach Yourself Books, London, 1964, p. 6.
6
Mary Renault, The King Must Die, Longmans, Green at Co. Ltd, London,
1958, p. 16.
7
Russell, p. 32.
1 fate and the feminine
8
Plato, The R~ublic, translated by Benjamin Jowett, Penguin Books, London,
1979, p. 690.
9
Aeschylos, Prometheus Bound, translated by E. H. Plumptre, David McKay,
New York, P: 111.
10
Heraclitus, TheCosmic Fragments, translated by G. S. Kirk, Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1954, p. 284.
11
Thrice GrtQtest Hermes (Corpus Hermeticumt, translated by G. R. S. Mead,
Hennes Press, Detroit, 1978, Vol. 2, p. 202.
12
Comford, p. 40.
13
Russell, p. 130.
14
'Little Briar-Rose', from The Complete Grimm's Fairy Tales, Pantheon Books,
1944.
15
H. R. Ellis Davidson, Gods andMythsofNorthmr Europe, Penguin Books, 1964.
16
Idries Shah, World Tales, Penguin Books, 1979.
17
See the works by Marie-Louise von Franz on fairy tales: An Introduction to
Fairy Tales, SluuIow and Evil in Fairy Tales, TheFeminine in Fairy Tales, Individ-
uation in Fairytales and Redemption Motifs in Fairy Tales.
18
C. G. Jung, TheArchdyptsandtheColledivtUnconscious, CW9 Part 1, para. 91.
19
C. G. [ung, TheSymbolic Life, CW18, para . 1228.
20
C. G. Jung, Psychology andAlchemy, CW12, n. 17, p. 30.
21
C. G. Jung. Symbols of Transformation, CW5, para. 371.
22 Iung, CW9, para. 158.
23
J. J. Bachofen, Myth, Religion andMother Right, translated by Ralph Manheim,
Bollingen FoundationlPrinceton University Press, 1967, p. 18.
24
Bachofen, p. 165.
25
Aeschylos, TM Oresteia, translated by Tony Harrison, Collings, London,
1981.
26
Erich Neumann, The Great Mother, Bollingen FoundationlPrinceton Univer-
sity Press, 1955, p. 30.
27
Neumann, p. 303.
28
Neumann, p. 230.
Notes
343
29
James Hillman, The Dream andtheUnderworld, Harper & Row, New York, 1979,
p.27.
2 Fate and Pluto
30
Hillman, p. 20.
31
Walter F. Otto, TheHomeric Gods, Thames & Hudson, London, 1979, p. 264.
32
Sylvia Brinton Perera, Descent totheGoddess, Inner City Books, Toronto, 1981,
p.24.
33
Perera, p. 21.
34
Robert Graves, TheGreek Myths, Penguin Books, 1955, Vol. 1.
35
J. R. R. Tolkien, The Lord oftheRings, Guild Publishing, London, 1980, p. 145.
36
Sigmund Freud, The Interpretation of Dreams, Penguin Books, 1976, P: 332.
37
Hillman, p. 161.
38
Hillman, p. 162.
39
Luigi Aurigemma, 'Transformation Symbols in the Astrological Tradition', in
The Analytic Process, ed. Joseph Wheelwright, C. G. Jung Foundation, New
York, 1971.
3 The Astrological Pluto
40
James Hillman, 'On the Necessity of Abnormal Psychology: Ananke and
Athene', in Facing the Gods, ed . James Hillman, Spring Publications, Dallas,
1980.
41
Aeschylos, Prometheus Bound, translated by David Crene, quoted in the above
essay by Hillman.
42
Paracelsus, Selected Writings, translated by Norbert Guterman, Bollingen Foun-
dationlPantheon Books, 1958, p. 203.
43
Otto, p. 47.
44
Erich Neumann, TheOrigins andHistory ofConsciousness, Bollingen Foundation!
Princeton University Press, 1973, p. 186.
45
Sigmund Freud, Three Essays on the Theory of Snuality, Penguin Books, 1981,
p.25.
46
Hillman, The Dream andtheUnderworld, p. 145.
47
Bradley Te Paske, RApe and Ritual: A Psychological Study, Inner City Books,
Toronto, 1982, p. 44.
48
Te Paske, p. 62.
49
Te Paske, p. 73.
50
Te Paske, p. 73.
51
'Mother Holle' from TheComplete Grimm's Fairy Tales.
4 Fate and the Family
52
Salvador Minuchin, Families and Family Therapy, Tavistock Publications,
London, 1974, p. 9.
53
Frances Wickes, The Inner World of Childhood, Appleton-Century, New York,
1966, p. 17.
54
C. G. [ung, TheDevelopment of Personality, CWI7, para 217a.
55
Iung, CW9, Vol. 1, para. 159.
56
Peter Hill, 'Child Psychiatry', in Essentials ofPostgraduate Psychiatry, Academic
Press, London, 1979, p. 128.
57
Wickes, p. 70.
58
C. G. Iung, ThePsychogentSis ofMental Disease, CW3, para. 429.
59
Michael Fordham, The Selfand Autism, William Heinemann, London, 1976,
p.85.
60
Fordham, p. 88.
344
The Astrology of Fate
5 Fate and Transformation
61
MarsiJio Ficino, Leuer«, translated by the School of Economic Science, London,
Shepheard-Walwyn Ltd, 1975, Vol. I, p. 94.
62
See [ung, CWI2, 13 and 14 (Psychology and Alchemy, Alchemical Studies, and
Mystn-ium Coniundionis).
63
TheDivinePymllndn-and Dthn-WritingsofHennesTrismegistus (extracts from the
Corpus Henneticum), translated by john D. Chambers, Samuel Weiser, New
York, 1982, p. 78.
64
Marie-Louise von Franz, Alchemy, Inner City Books, Toronto, 1980, p. 44.
65
Thrice Greatest Hennes, Vol. 3, p. 245.
66
Thrice Greatest Hennes, Vol. 2, p. 315.
67
Ficino, Vol. 3, p. 75.
68
Frances A. Yates, Giordano BrunoandtheHermetic Tradition,Routledge & Kegan
Paul, London, 1964, p. 65.
69
Ptolemy, Tetrabiblos, translated by F. E. Robbins , Harvard University Press &
William Heinemann Ltd, 1971, p. 23.
70
Gauricus, Opera Omnia, Vol. 2, p. 1612.
71
julius Firmicus Matemus, Mathesis: Ancient Astrology, Theory and Practise,
translated by jean Rhys Bram, Noyes Press, N.j., 1975, p. 27.
72
Firmicus, p. SO.
73
Firmicus, p. 256.
74
Firmicus, p. 56.
6 The Creation of the World
75
Quoted from Robert Graves, The Golden Fleece, Hutchinson & Co., London,
1983, pp. 150-3.
7 Fate and Myth
76
Euripides, The Phoenician Women, translated by Philip Vellacoll, Penguin
Books, 1972, p. 237.
77
C. Kerenyi, The Heroes of theGreeks, Thames & Hudson, London, 1974, p. 98.
77
Kerenyi, p. 98.
78
Kerenyi, p. 98.
79
Euripides, pp. 289-90
80
joseph Campbell, The Hero With a Thousand Faces, Sphere Books Ltd, London,
1975, p. 13.
81
Comford, p. 110.
82
C. Kerenyi, Zeusand Hera, Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1975, p. 16.
83
Quoted from Mary Renault, TheCharioteer, New English Library, 1983, p. 98.
84
Campbell, p. 38.
8 Myth and the Zodiac
as
Neumann, The Origins and Historyof Consciousness, p. 176.
86
Neumann, p. 187.
87
Campbell, p. 21.
88
Paul Friedrich, The Meaning of Aphrodite, University of Chicago Press, 1978,
p.145.
89
Friedrich, p. 79.
90
Graves, TheGreek Myths, Vol. 1, p. 87.
91
Ivor Morrish, The DarkTwin, Fowler & Co. Ltd, London, 1980, P: 37.
92
Richard Don ington, Wagnn-'s RingandItsSymbols, Faber, London, 1963, p. 232.
93 oue. The Homeric Gods, p. 108.
94
[ung, CW9 Part 1, para . 469.
Notes
345
95
lung, CW9 Part I, para. 478.
96
Hugh Lloyd-jones. Myths of the ZodiDc, Duckworth, London, 1978, p. 27.
97
Neumann, The Originsand HistoryofConsciousness, p. 23.
98
lung, CW6, para. 432.
99
C. G. lung, MysttTium Coniunctionis, CW14, para. 404.
100
lung, CW14, para. 405.
101
Emma lung and Marie-Louise von Franz, The Grail Legend, Hodder &<
Stoughton, London, 1971, p. 183.
102
lung &< von Franz, p. 294.
103
Otto, The Homeric Gods, p. 70.
104
lane Harrison, Themis, Merlin Press, London, 1977, p. 517.
105
Frances A. Yates, Astrata, Peregrine Books, London, 1977, p. 32.
106
John Layard, The Virgin Archetype', in lmilgtS of the Untouched, Spring
Publications, Dallas, 1982, p. 170.
107
Layard, p. 171.
108
TheThunder, Perfect Mind, from TheNagHammildi Library, translated by George
W. MacCrae, E. l. Brill. Leiden, 1977.
109
Esther Harding, Women's MysttTitS, Rider &< Co., London, 1971. p. 124.
110
lung, CW9 Part I, para. 316.
111
Graves, The Greek Myths, Vol. 2, p. 11.
112
Jane Harrison, Prologomena, Merlin Press, London, 1962, p. 298.
113
Graves, TheGreek Myths, Vol. I, p. 127.
114
E. M. Butler, TheMyth oftheMagus, Cambridge University Press, 1979, p. 128.
115
Goethe, Faust, Part I, translated with introduction by Philip Wayne, Penguin
Books, 1949, p. 22.
116
Goethe, Faust, Part I, p. 87.
117
Goethe, Faust, Part 2, p. 282.
118
lung, CW5, para. 119.
119
Kerenyi, The Gods of the Greeks, p. 91.
120
Otto, The Homeric Gods, p. 283.
121
Otto, The Homeric Gods, p. 158.
122
Kerenyi, The Gods of theGreeks, p. 98.
123
Kerenyi, TheGodsof theGreeks, p. 160.
124
T. S. Eliot, TheWasteLand, in TheComplete POfflIS andPlays ofT. S. Eliot, Faber,
London, 1969, p. 61.
125
Campbell, The Hero With a Thousand Faces, p. 113.
126
Campbell, The Hero With a Thousand Faces, p. 117.
127
Mary Renault, The KingMust Die, p. 17.
128
Campbell, The Hero With a Thousand Faces, p. 123.
129
lames Hillman, Puer Papers, Spring Publications, Dallas, 1979, p. 15.
130
Hillman, Puer Papers, p. 17.
131
Aeschylos, Pro"!etheusBound, translated by Philip Vellacott, Penguin Books,
1961, p. 27.
132
Aeschylos, Prometheus Bound, p. 35.
133
C. G. lung, Two Essays on AnalytiCilI Psychology, CW7, para. 243.
134
Graves, TheGreek Myths, Vol. 1. p. 117.
135
C. G. lung, Aion, CW9 Part 2, para. 174.
136
C. Kerenyi, Dionvsos, Routledge &< Kegan Paul. London, 1976, p. 27.
137
Kerenyi, Dionvsos, p. 28.
138
Kerenyi, Dionysos, p. 64.
9 Fate lind Synchronicity
139
C. G. lung, The Structureand Dynamics of the Psyche, CW8, para. 431.
140
Gerhard Adler, 'Reflections on "Chance" , "Fate", and Synchronicity', in The
346
The Astrology of Fate
SI""'''1n from Elko, C. G. Jung Institute of San Francisco, 1978, p. 90.
141
Adler, p. 90.
142
Jung, CW8, para. 841.
143 Jung, CW8, para. 918.
144
[ung, CW8, para. 938.
145
Russell, p. 355.
146
Russell, p. 264.
147 MarcEdmund Jones, Horllry Astrology, Shambha1a, London. 1975,p. 58.
148
Aniela Jaffe, TM Myth ofMelJning, Penguin Books, 1975,p. 153.
10 Fate and the Seu
149 C. G. Jung, Psychological Reflections, edited by Jolande Jacobi, Routledge &:
Kegan Paul, 1971, p. 322.
150 Jaffe, p. 19.
151 C. G. [ung, Psychological TyptS, CW6, para. 789-91.
152 Jaffe, p. 19.
153 Iung, CW17, para. 299.
154 Jung, CW8, para. 402.
155 [ung, CW12, para. 330.
156 Jaffe, p. 91.
157 Jaffe, p. 78.
158
Jung, CWl1, para. 960.
159
'TIle Fishennan and His Wife', from TM Campltlt Grimm'sFilirytillts.
Glossary ofMythological Names
Referred to in the Text
Acheron [Greek). One of the rivers of the underworld. The name means 'stream of
woe'.
Achilles (Greek). One of the heroes of the Trojan War, Achilles was the son of the
sea goddess Thetis by Peleus, a mortal. When he was a baby his mother dipped
him in the river Styx to ensure his immortality, but forgot to immerse the heel by
which she held him. He met his death through this vulnerable part during one
of the battles with the Trojans.
Adonis [Phoenician). Son and lover of the goddess Ishtar or Aphrodite, he was a
youthful vegetation god, of an extraordinary beauty . He was killed by a wild
boar while hunting. An agricultural divinity, his death and resurrection were
celebrated in connection with the sowing and harvesting of crops. He is related
to Tammuz, Attis and Osiris, as well as Dionysos - aUyouthful gods who were
destroyed and resurrected.
Aeetes (Greek). King of Colchis, he was the son of the sun god Helios. He became
guardian of the Golden Fleece, and held it until his daughter Medea feU in love
with the hero Jason and ran away with her lover and the Fleece. See Jason and
Medea.
Aegisthos (Greek). The lover of Queen K1ytaemnestra of Argos, he plotted with her
to murder her husband Agamemnon when the King returned from the Trojan
War. Aegisthos himself was murdered by Orestes, the son of Klytaemnestra
and Agamemnon. See Orestes. (For the complete story of Orestes. see p. 89.)
Agamemnon [Greek). King of Argos, he was a member of the house of Atreus,
upon which a curse had been laid. He was one of the war-leaders of the Greek
ships sailing to the Trojan War. He was murdered, upon his return, by his wife
Klytaemnestra and her lover Aegisthos. See Orestes. (Also see p. 89.)
Ahriman [Persian) . God of evil and darkness, he is roughly equivalent to the Devil
in Christian myth; however, Ahriman was an equal power to the god of light,
Orrnuzd, perpetually striving with him for mastery.
Alberich [Teutonic). One of the race of dwarfs, Alberich in Wagner's Ringsteals the
Rhine maidens' gold and forges it into a ring of power by abjuring love. He is
represented as a dark, greedy, malevolent figure whose realm of Niebelheim is a
kind of underworld.
Amaltheia(Greek). The she-goat who suckled the infant Zeus while he was hidden
from his tyrannical father Kronos. In gratitude for saving his life, Zeus, when he
eventually became king of the gods, placed her in heaven as the constellation of
Capricorn, and turned one of her horns into the Cornucopia or Horn of Plenty.
Ammon [Egyptian). The primal creator god, portrayed with a ram's head. Ammon
is roughly equivalent to the Greek Zeus and the Biblical Yahveh. His name
means 'the hidden one' and he is the original generative force which creates the
universe.
Amphion [Greek). One ofa pair of mythic twins, Amphion was the more poetic and
musical of the two, while his brother Zethus was warlike and quarrelsome. Each
despised the other for these differences.
Ananke [Greek]. Her name means 'necessity', and she is another form of Moira, the
great goddess of fate.
348
The Astrology of Fate
Andromeda (Greek). Daughter of King Cepheus and Queen Cassiopeia of Ethio-
pia, she was offered in sacrifice to a sea monster sent by Poseidon to punish the
boastful vanity of her parents. However, the hero Perseus fell in love with her
and rescued her from the rock to which she was chained. He destroyed the
monster and married her.
Anubis (Egyptian). An underworld deity, he is portrayed with a jackal's head. He is
the psychopomp or guide of souls into the underworld. He is roughly equiv-
alent to the Greek Hermes in his role of psychopomp.
Aomis (Greek). One of the rivers of the underworld. The name means 'birdless'.
Aphrodite (Greek). The goddess of sensual love and beauty, she was born from the
union of the sea with the severed genitals of the god Ouranos aher his son
Kronos had castrated him. She is equivalent to lnanna in Sumerian myth and
Ishtar in Babylonian, and presides over fertility and all the arts and wiles of love.
She is also a battle goddess, inciting men to bloody fighting. She is generally
vain, jealous and vindictive, but always irresistible.
ApoUo (Greek). God of the sun, music and prophecy, he is the son of Zeusand twin
brother to Artemis the moon goddess. His oracle at Delphi foretold the future to
the suppliant, but in terms so ambiguous that he was called 'double-tongued'.
He is also the patron of young boys, and is the most gentlemanly and rational of
the Olympian gods.
Ares (Greek). The god of war and battle-lust, he was born of Hera, the queen of the
gods, without a father. He is described in myth as vicious, violent and treacher-
ous. His Roman equivalent is Mars.
Artemis, Diana (Greek). Twin sister of Apollo the sun god , she is a deity of the
moon and is portrayedas a wild virgin huntress and mistress of untamed beasts.
In Asia Minor she is represented also as a harlot and a fertility goddess, although
paradoxically also virginal, and a protectress of pregnancy and childbirth. She is
also associated with Hekate, another lunar goddess and underworld ruler.
AskJepiOl, Aesculapius (Greek). The son of Apollo the sun god , he was raised by
the centaur Cheiron and taught the arts of healing and medicine. He was the
patron of healers, and could also raise the dead. He is sometimes shown in the
form of a serpent, and was himself resurrected from the dead, having been
killed by one of Zeus' thunderbolts. He is also portrayed as lame.
Aatraea (Greek). The goddess of justice. A daughter of Zeus, she once lived on
earth and mingled with men, but became increasingly disgusted at their
baseness and eventually retreated to the heavens as the constellation of Virgo.
Asvins (Hindu). A pairof divine twins who were rain-makers and givers of fertility,
they were called the Heavenly Charioteers.
Atargatia(Syro-Phoenician). One of the great fertility goddesses of Asia Minor, she
is also a lunar deity. Like Ishtar and Inanna, she is both virgin and harlot,
worshipped with orgiastic rites . She is portrayed as a fish or with a fish's tail,
and is accompanied by her son-lover Ichthys, also portrayed as a fish.
Athene (Greek). Goddess of wisdom and the strategy of war, she is a champion of
heroes. She is the daughter of Zeus, sprung from his head without a mother,
and is perpetually virgin. She is also patroness of artisans and weavers, and
taught crahs to mankind.
Atreus (Greek). King of Argos, he became involved in a blood-feud with his brother
Thyestes and butchered Thyestes' children. In revenge, Thyestes cursed his
brother's line. This curse passed down to Orestes. (See P: 89.)
Atropos (Greek). One of the three Moirai or Fates. Atropos is called 'the cutter'
because she severs the thread of fate which ends a mortal life.
Attia (Phrygian). Son and lover of the great fertility goddess Kybele, he is a
vegetation god and is analagous to Tammuz and Adonis. He was unfaithful to
Kybele and in revenge she struck him with madness, and he castrated himself.
Kybele then changed him into a fir tree.
Glossary of Mythological Names
349
Atum [Egyptian]. A fonn of the sun god Ra.
Baldur [Teutonic] . The most beautiful of the gods of Valhalla, everyone loved him
for his radiance and wisdom. The goddess Frigg begged every living thing on
earth, animal, vegetable, mineral, to swear an oath never to hann Baldur. All
took the oath except the mistletoe, which was too young. Loge, the fire god, was
jealous and plotted Baldur's death. During a contest one of the other gods
hurled a branch of mistletoe at Baldur, which instantly killed him.
Bast (Egyptian]. Originally a lion goddess, her sacred animal later became the cat.
She is a goddess of sensual pleasure and also a patroness of sorcery and
witchcraft. She is related to the Greek Artemis-Hekate.
Castor [Greek). One of the pair of twins associated with the constellation of Gemini,
Castor was the immortal twin, fathered by Zeus. His brother Polydeuces(Pollux
in Latin) was mortal. fathered by King Tyndareos of Sparta. Castor and
Polydeuces fought another pair of twins, called Idas and Lynceus, and Poly-
deuces was killed. Castor mourned so bitterly that Zeus promised to allow them
alternate periods in the underworld and on Mount Olympus so they might be
together.
Cerberus (Greek). The monstrous three-headed dog who guards the gateway to the
underworld.
Charon [Greek). The ancient ferryman who ushers the souls of the dead across the
river Styx into the underworld. He must be paid his coin, or the soul ofthe dead
person will be left to wander eternally on the far bank.
Cheiron [Greek) . King of the centaurs, he is a sage and healer, who taught
earth-wisdom and the healing arts to the young sons of kings. He was acciden-
tally wounded in the thigh by an arrow dipped in the poisonous blood of the
Hydra. All his wisdom could not cure him, and because he was immortal he
could not die. He hid in his cave in agony until the Titan Prometheus offered his
own boon of death in exchange so that the centaur could find peace in the
underworld.
Clotho [Greek). One of the three Moirai or Fates, Clotho is the spinner who weaves
the thread of mortal destiny.
Cocytus (Greek). One of the rivers of the underworld. The name means 'wailing'.
Cronus [Greek). Also spelled Krenos, he is the equivalent of the Roman Saturn. Son
of Ouranos and Gaia, he is an earth deity and a god of fertility. He led the
rebellion of the Titans against his father, castrating him with a sickle and
becom ing king of the gods. Eventually he was overthrown by his own son Zeus.
He is portrayed as an old man, and devoured his own children in order to keep
them from usurping his power.
Dactyls [Greek) . The dwarf gods, servants of the Great Mother. They are smiths,
artisans, and tenders of animals and plants.
Daedalus [Greek) . The master craftsman of Crete, he was hired by King Minos to
build a labyrinth to house the monstrous Minotaur. See Minos.
Demeter, Ceres [Greek). Daughter of Kronos and sister to Zeus, she is the goddess
of agriculture and of the harvest. She is an earth goddess, usually portrayed
with her virgin daughter Persephone but with no husband or consort.
Dia (Greek). Another name for Gaia or Rhea, the earth goddess.
Dike [Greek) . Another name for Astraea, the goddess of justice. Dike embodies the
justice of nature, and the orderly round of the seasons.
Dionysos, Bacchus [Greek) . A complex and multifaceted god, he is at once both a
deity of life, ecstasy and sexuality, and a god of death. The son of Zeus by
Semele, he is portrayed asyouthful and vaguely androgynous. He wasdriven
mad by Hera, and wandered all over the world teaching the art of viticultureand
initiating men and women into his orgiastic mystery rites. As a child he was
dismembered by the Titans and brought to life again. His nature has great
cruelty, but he is a redeemer god who vouchsafes the mystery of eternal life.
350
The Astrology of Fate
Dis (Roman). Another name for Pluto, the god of the underworld. The name means
'rich'.
Ea (Babylonian). A water god, he is also a creator god of supreme wisdom. He is
portrayed as a goat with a fish's tail, from which image the Capricomian
goat-fish is derived. He is also patron of magic, and the creator of man, whom
he fashioned out of clay.
Eileithyia(Greek). A goddess of childbirth, she is the patroness of midwives. She is
the Greek equivalent to the Egyptian Nekhebet, protectress ofchildbirth, who is
portrayed with a vulture's head.
Enki (Sumerian). The god of fire, he is also a creator god. He is analagous to the
Greek Hennes and the Teutonic Loge.
Epimetheus (Greek). The brother of the Titan Prometheus, his name means
'hindsight' or 'he who learns from the event'. He was given as a wife Pandora, a
woman fashioned by the gods to plague man. As her dowry she brought the
famous box which contained all the woes which now plague mankind -
sickness, old age, death, depression, strife and fear. Also contained in the box
was hope.
Erda [Teutonic]. The earth goddess. Erda or Urd isalso the name of the oldest of the
Norris, analagous to the Greek Moirai or Fates.
Ereshkigal(Sumerian). The terrible goddess of the underworld. Her name means
'Lady of the Great Place Below'. Her vizier iscalled Namtar, which means 'fate'.
Erinyes, Erinnyes (Greek). Called the 'dogs of Hades', the Erinyes are the god-
desses of vengeance, punishing those who have shed familial blood or broken
oaths. In Hesiod's cosmogony they sprang from the blood of the castrated god
Ouranos when it fell upon the earth. In Aeschylos they are the daughters of
Nyx, the goddess of Nighl. Usually three in number, they are sometimes
portrayed in a noxious swann, anned with torches and Whips with snakes on
their heads. Their punishment is madness.
Eros (Greek). Represented in classical Greek art as a chubby boy with a bow and
arrow who inflicts mortals with the wounds of love, he was originally a great
primal creator god whose passion fonned the manifest universe. He is also a
death god, whom Plato called a 'great daimon' (daimon means a dispenser of
fate).
Eumenides [Greek). A euphemism for the Erinyes or goddesses of vengeance, the
name means 'the kindly ladies'.
Europa/Greek). A mortal woman with whom Zeus fellin love. He carried her off to
Crete and raped her, in the fonn of a white bull. She bore him three sons -
Sarpedon, Rhadamanthys and King Minos.
Eurynome (Greek). One of Zeus' lovers, she was the daughter of Okeanos. She
bore Zeus the three Graces.
Fafner and Fasolt (Teutonic). Two giants whQquarrelled over a hoard of gold stolen
from the Niebelungen or dwarfs. Fafner murdered his brother Fasolt and then
turned himself into a dragon to guard the hoard. He was eventually killed by the
hero Siegfried.
Caia(Greek). The goddess of earth. She was sister and lover of Ouranos, the god of
heaven. Their union created the manifest universe.
Canymedes [Greek], A beautiful youth, he was the son of King Tros of Troy. Zeus
desired him and, in the fonn of an eagle, abducted him and took him to Mount
Olympus, where the boy was made immortal and installed as cupbearer to the
gods.
Corgon (GreekJ. There were three Gorgons, Medusa, Stheino and Euryale. They
were once beautiful, but because Medusa offended the goddess Athene by
coupling with Poseidon in Athene's sacred precinct, all three sisters were
turned into winged monsters with glaring eyes, huge teeth, protruding
tongues, brazen claws and serpent locks. Their gaze turned men to stone.
Glossary of MythologiCilI Names
351
Graiai [Greek] . Three withered old women with one eye and one tooth between
them. With the single eye they could see everything in the world. The hero
Perseus had to seek their cave and obtain from them the secret abode of the
Gorgon Medusa whom he had to slay.
Hades (Greek). Lord of the underworld, he is the son of Kronos and the brother of
Zeus. He is a stem, dark god who wears a helmet which renders him invisible
in the upper world. He is best known in myth for his abduction and rape of
Persephone.
Hap] (Egyptian). The god of the Nile, he is portrayed with great jugs of water
which he pours into the river to cause its inundations. He is shown as a fat,
jolly deity with a woman's breasts.
Hathor (Egyptian). A fertility goddess, she is also a deity of battle . She is shown
with a cow's head, and is analagous to the Greek Aphrodite.
Hekate (Greek). Ruler of the underworld, she is also a moon goddess. She is
connected with Artemis, the virgin huntress and mistress of beasts. Hekate is
also the goddess of witchcraft and magic, and sends demons to earth to
torment men. She has a retinue of infernal dogs, and is sometimes portrayed
with three heads. She is also the goddess of crossroads, where her shrines were
erected.
Helen (Greek). The daughter of Zeus and Leda, a mortal woman, she became the
wife of King Menelaos of Sparta. She was reputed to be the most beautiful
woman in the world. Paris, a Trojan prince, abducted her, thus initiating the
Trojan War.
Helle [Greek). With her brother Phrixus she fled the wrath of her wicked step-
mother, the queen of lolkos, on the back of a golden ram which Zeus provided
for their rescue. On the way to Cokhis, Helle fell into the sea, which was called
Hellespont after her.
Hephaistos (Greek). The divine smith and artisan, he was the parthenogenous son
of the goddess Hera . When he was born, his mother, shocked by his ugliness,
hurled him down from Mount Olympus into the sea. Thetis the sea goddess
cared for him until he was invited back to Olympus. Zeus threw him out again
during a family squabble, and on this second occasion he landed on the earth
and broke both his legs; he was lame ever after . He was married to Aphrodite,
who was perpetually unfaithful to him . He was responsible for the creation of
all the tools and weapons and emblems of power for the other Olympian gods.
Hera, Juno (Greek). Wife and sister of Zeus, her name means 'the mistress'. She is
queen of the gods and patroness of marriage, and is known in myth primarily
for her violent jealousy of Zeus' lovers and her incessant persecution of his
illegitimate children.
Herakles (Greek). Called Hercules by the Romans, his great heroic achievement
was the accomplishment of the Twelve Labours. The son of Zeus by a mortal
woman, he was the subject of the goddess Hera's virulent enmity. Among the
Labours were the destruction of the Hydra, the Nemean Lion, the Cretan Bull
and the Stymphalian Birds.
Hermes (Greek). The god of thieves, liars and merchants, he is also the guide of
dead souls and the messenger between Mount Olympus and mortal men . He
rules crossroads and is the patron of the traveller and of those who are lost. He
is also a deity of luck and money, and is represented as brilliant and guileful.
He is the son of Zeus and the nymph Maia, which is also another name for the
goddess of Night.
Hydra (Greek). A monster with nine poisonous snake-heads which, if they are cut
off, each sprout another nine. The Lernaean Hydra lived in a cave in a swamp
and preyed on the countryside until the hero Herakles destroyed it as one of
the Twelve Labours.
Ichthys (Syro-Phoenician). A youthful vegetation god, he is portrayed as a fish in
352
The Astrology of Fate
company with his mother Atargatis, the great fertility goddess who is repre-
sented with a fish's tail. He is related toTammuz, Attis and Adonis, and follows
their characteristic death and resurrection pattern.
Jnanna (Sumerian). The goddess of heaven, she is analagous to the Greek Aphro-
dite and the Roman Venus. She is a fertility goddess, patroness of the arts of
love, and also a goddess of battle. She descended into the underworld and was
destroyed by her sister Ereshkigal, queen of the underworld, and resurrected.
Jo (Greek). Daughter of the river god Inachus, Zeus fell in love with her. Hera's
enmity pursued her and she was turned into a white cow, over which the
hundred-eyed Argus was placed as guard to ensure that Zeus did not steal her
away. Hera, still not content, sent a gadfly to sting 10and chase her all over the
world. Eventually she came to Egypt, where Zeus restored her to human form.
Isis (Egyptian). A moon goddess, she was called 'Queen of Heaven' . She is a
protectress of childbirth and a powerful magician and sorceress. She is also a
goddessof fertilityand sensual love. She restored her brother-loverOsiris to life
after he was destroyed in the underworld by their evil brother Set.
Ixion (Greek). Son of the king of the Lapiths, he unwisely planned to seduce Zeus'
wife Hera, queen of the gods. Zeus, reading bdon's intentions, shaped a cloud
into a false Hera with whom Ixion, being too far gone in drink to notice the
deception, duly took his pleasure. He was surprised in the act by Zeus, who
bound him to a fiery wheel which rolled without cease inTartaros, the bowels of
the underworld.
Jason (Greek). Son of the King of lolkos, he was robbed of his inheritance when a
child, by his wicked uncle Pelias. He was raised by the centaur Cheiron, and
when he reached manhood went back to lolkos toclaimhis kingdom. Peliassent
him off on a quest to find the Golden Reece, hoping that he would be killed in
the process. However, Jason retrieved the Reece from the Kingof Colchis with
the help of the king's sorceress - daughter Medea, and returned to become king
of lolkos. Jason then tired of Medea and planned to marry the daughter of the
king of Corinth; but Medea, in a jealous fury, murdered the girl as well as her
two children by Jason, and fled in a chariot drawn by winged dragons. She
cursed Jason, and from that time his life went steadily downhill, until he was
killed by a falling timber from his own ship, the Argo.
Job (Hebrew). In the Old Testament, Job was God's good and loyal servant, but
God, at the request of Satan, subjected him to severe suffering and loss to test
his faith. Because Job's patience and love of God did not alter, everything that
had been taken from him was ultimately restored.
Kali (Hindu) . Called 'the BlackMother', she isa bloodthirsty goddess of battle and
death. She is portrayed with a necklace of human skulls, with a protruding
tongue and blood-red eyes. She presides over disintegration and disease, yet
she also restores life and grants boons to her faithful.
Ketu (Hindu). A demon who devours the sun during the time of a solar eclipse.
Astronomically, Ketu is equated with the moon's south or descending node .
Klytaemnestra, Clytemnestra (Greek). Wife of King Agamemnon of Argos, she
conspired with her lover Aegisthos to murder her husband upon his return
from the Trojan War. In revenge, at the order ofthe god Apollo, her son Orestes
in tum murdered her, and was driven mad by the Erinyes for his crime. (See
p.89.)
Kybele, Cybele (Phrygian). One of the great fertility goddesses of Asia Minor, she
is generally shown in a chariot drawn by lions. She was worshipped with
particularly bloody rites, along with her son-lover Attis who castrated himself
in a bout of madness inflicted upon him by his mother.
Lachesis (Greek). One of the three Moirai or Fates, Lachesis is the measurer who
decides the quality and length of a mortal life.
LaiOl, Laius (Greek). Kingof Thebes, he was warned by Apollo's oracle not to have
Glossary of Mythological Names
353
a son, or that son would become his murderer. His wife lokaste bore him a child
despite this warning, which Laios ordered to be exposed on a hillside. The child
survived, however, and grew up to be Oidipus, who eventually killed his father
unknowingly on a mountain road and then married his own mother, becoming
King of Thebes. (For the complete myth of Oidipus, see p. 163.)
lamia [Greek). Sometimes portrayed as a swarm of vengeful underworld god-
desses, Lamia was in the earliest version of the myth a queen of Libya who was
loved by Zeus. She saw her children perish as a result of Hera's jealousy, and
went mad with grief, devouring babies whom she tore from their mothers' arms.
The underworld Lamia are responsible for the deaths of newborn children.
lethe [Greek). One of the rivers of the underworld. The word means 'forget-
fulness'.
loge [Teutonic). Also spelled Loki, he is the trickster god and a god of fire. He is a
thief and a liar, but offers wise and cunning counsel. He is analagous to
t ~ ;e
Greek Hermes.
Maat [Egyptian). The goddess of justice. Her emblem isa feather, which is placed in
the scales in the judgement hall of the underworld, and weighed against the
heart of the dead person to assess his sins. If the heart is heavier than the feather
of Maat, it is thrown to the monster Amemait to be eaten, and the soul is denied
eternal life.
Maenad [Greek). A woman follower of the god Dionysos . The Maenads dressed in
animal skinsand fellinto ecstatic trances, during which they celebrated orgiastic
rites on mountain-tops and tore wild animals in pieces.
Maia [Greek). The mother of the god Hermes, she is usually portrayed as a nymph
with whom Zeus fellin love. But Maia isalso the name by which Zeus addresses
the great goddess of Night, thus suggesting that the mother of Hermes is the
darkness itself.
Marduk [Babylonian). A fire god, he is roughly analagous to Yahveh as a creator
god. He slew the sea-monster Tiamat, his mother, and out of her dismembered
flesh created the physical universe.
Mars [Roman). The god of war, he is equivalent to the Greek Ares.
Medea [Greek). Daughter of King Aeetes of Colchis, she was a sorceress who fellin
love with the hero Jason when he arrived with his Argonauts to steal the Golden
Fleece. She drugged the dragon which guarded the Fleece and stole away with
Jason and the Fleece. When her father's fleet pursued them, she cut up her
brother in pieces and threw them on the sea, knowing that Aeetes would have to
collect the pieces before he could continue his pursuit. When Medea and Jason
returned to lolkos, he abandoned her for another woman. She murdered the
other woman and her own children, and fled to Athens, becoming the mistress
of King Aigeus . Having tried unsuccessfully to murder Aigeus' son Theseus,
she vanished.
Mercury [Roman). The winged messenger of the gods, he isanalagous to the Greek
Hermes.
Minos [Greek). A sonof Zeus by Europa, he was King of Crete. He gained the
kingship through the favour of the god Poseidon, who gave him a sacred bull to
show to the people. Although he was required to sacrifice this bull to the god he
coveted it and offered up a lesser bull instead. Incensed, Poseidon afflicted
Minos' wife Pasiphae with a passion for the bull. The union of woman and bull
produced the monstrous Minotaur, with a bull's head and human body, which
ate human flesh. This creature was eventually killed by the hero Theseus.
Milhras [Persian] . A redeemer god who bears many similarities to the figure of
Christ, he is the messenger of the god of light, Ormuzd. He is portrayed as the
slayer of the bull of earthly passion, and is ranged against the evil god Ahriman
(Satan) in eternal battle . He was worshipped by the Roman soldiers as the
protector of the Empire.
354
The Astrology of Fate
MnemOlyne [Greek] . One of Zeus' lovers, her name means 'memory'. She bore
him the nine Muses who gave arts and sciences to mankind.
Moira IGreek]. The goddess of fate. The word means 'allotment'. She is portrayed
as the oldest power in the universe, giving even the gods their circumscribed
share of power. Sometimesshe is represented as three women, Ootho, Lachesis
and Atropos, the three Fates.
NemesiIIGreek). Sometimes portrayed as a goddess and sometimesas an imperso-
nal cosmic force, Nemesis is the inevitable punishment for hubris or too much
arrogance and pride before the gods. Nemesis is a 'bad fate', and her punish-
ments always fit precisely the nature of the crime.
Nephele IGreek). A woman made of cloud, created by Zeus to fool the unwise Ixion
who coveted Zeus' wife Hera. The cloud-woman was made in the likeness of
Hera, and lxion while drunk coupled with her. He was punished with terrible
torments, but Nephele bore a child to him, the centaur Cheiron.
Neptune [Roman], God ofthe sea, he is similar to the Greek Poseidon, but is solely a
water Sod, while Poseidon is a fertility god and lord of earthquakes.
Nol'nI [Teutonic]. The northern European version of the Moirai or Fates. They are
sometimes portrayed as the daughters of the earth goddess Erda or Urd. Urd is
also the name of the eldest Nom. Her sistersare called Verandiand Skuld. They
sit at the roots of the World-Ash Yggdrasil, sprinkling the tree with water so that
it does not wither.
Nyx IGreek). The primal goddess of Night, she is an underworld deity.
OdYIHUlIGreek). One of the heroes of the Trojan War, he is the subjectof Homer's
great poetic epic, the Od~, which narrates his long and circuitous journey
from the wars back to his wife Penelope and his kingdom of Ithaca . He is called
'the wily one' because he managed to pass through many labours and dangers
primarily through wit rather than brute force.
OidipuI, Oedipus [Greek]. The name means 'swell-foot'. He was the unwelcome
child of King Laios and Queen Iokaste of Thebes. An oracle told him that he
would slay his father and become the husband of his mother, and in his
strenuous efforts to avoid this fate he invoked it. For the complete story of
Oidipus, see p. 163.
OlympuIIGreek). A high mountain on the mainland of Greece, it was believed to
be the abode of the gods. Like Valhalla in Teutonic myth, Olympus is a place too
high for mortal man to reach.
Orestes [Greek], The hero of Aeschylos' great trilogyof tragic plays, he was the son
of King Agamemnon and Queen KJytaemnestra of Argos. Ordered by the god
Apollo to avenge his mother's murder of his father, he was tormented by the
Erinyes for his matricide until the goddess Athene and her court at Athens set
him free. (See p. 89.)
Ormuzd [Persian]. The god of light and goodness. He is also called Ahura Mazda.
He stands in perpetual contest with Ahriman, the spirit of darkness and evil.
Orpheul [Greek], One of the saddest of Greek heroes, Orpheus was a poet and
gifted musician. His beloved wife Eurydice was lost to him because Hades,
falling in love with her, sent a snake to bite her in the heel so that she could enter
the underworld to Jive with him. Orpheus wandered grieving over the earth,
and his music made animals and stones weep. He was eventually tom to pieces
by a group of wild Maenads, followers of the god Dionysos, who mistook him
fora faun.
Osiris IEgyptian). A god of life and death, he is both the judge of souls in the
underworld and the redeemer of the spirit. Destroyed by his evil brother Set, he
was mummified and the dismembered pieces of his body put back together by
his sister-wife Isis, the moon goddess.
OuranOlIGreek). The primal god of heaven. In Latin he is Uranus. Mating with his
mother-sister Gaia, the earth goddess, he generated the physical universe.
Glossary of Mythological Names
355
They also produced the race of Titans and giants. He was overthrown and cas-
trated by his son Krenos, who coveted the kingship of the gods.
Pandora [Greek). A woman made by the smith god Hephaistos at the request of
Zeus, she was sent as a gift to mankind, given as a wife to the Titan Epimetheus.
The gift was meant to destroy, for she brought with her a box containing all the
human ills - old age, sickness, insanity, fear, violence, death - which she pro-
ceeded to unleash upon man. Also included in the box was hope, the only com-
pensation.
Parcn [Teutonic) . Another name for the three Noms or goddesses of fate. They
were called Parcae, a Latin name, after the Romans had conquered Gaul and
parts of Germany.
Paris (Greek). The son of King Priam of Troy, he was renowned for his beauty and
prowess with women. Because of these accomplishments he was asked by Zeus
to judge a beauty contest between three goddesses, Hera, Athene and Aphro-
dite. He chose the goddess of love after she promised him as a reward the most
beautiful woman in the world . This was Helen, whose subsequent abduction by
Paris from her Greek husband King Menelaos of Mykenai resulted in the Trojan
War and Paris' death.
Parsifal [Teutonic). Later called Perceval in French and English versions, he is
known for his place in the Arthurian tales, but is actually a much older and
pre-Christian figure. He is the foolish and innocent knight who discovers the
Holy Grail but neglects to ask the important question which would heal the sick
Grail King and restore the land to health. He must then labour for twenty years
before he can refind the treasure and ask the question which fulfils his quest.
Pasiphai! [Greek). The wife of King Minos of Crete, she was afflicted by the god
Poseidon with an unquenchable passion for the sacred bull which Minos had
refused to sacrifice to the god. The result of the mating of woman and bull was
the monstrous Minotaur, which the hero Theseus had to kill.
Peleus [Greek). A mortal, he fathered the hero Achilles on the sea goddess Thetis.
Thetis was in the process of burning her child to ensure his immortality when
Peleus discovered her and dragged the boy out of the fire, thus leaving one limb
mortal while the rest had been rendered immortal. It was through this vulner-
able limb that Achilles was finally slain.
Pelops [Greek). A king of Lydia, his father was Tantalos, who mocked the gods by
killing his son and serving him up for dinner to the Olympians to see whether
they would discover what they were eating. The goddess Rhea brought the child
Pelops back to lifeagain, but ever after he had a mark on his shoulder where the
goddess Demeter had unknowingly bitten off a chunk. He founded the line of
Atreus, upon which a curse hung until the hero Orestes broke the curse.
Pentheus [Greek). A king of Thebes, he refused to permit the worship of the god
Dionysos when that deity arrived with his train of wild followers. In revenge
Dionysos drove Pentheus' mother mad, so that when she and her companions
found him trying to spy on their rites they mistook him fora faun and tore him to
pieces.
Persephone (Greek). Her name means 'bringer of destruction'. A kore or maiden,
she is the daughter of Demeter and Zeus, and is a goddess of spring. She was
abducted from her mother and dragged into the underworld by Hades, where
she was raped and bore him a child called Zagreus or Dionysos . She was
worshipped as the Queen of the Dead.
Perseus [Greek). The son ofZeus and a mortal woman, Danae, he was thrown out to
sea with his mother locked in a wooden chest. They were rescued by King Poly-
dectes, but the king wished to marry Perseus' mother against her will. Perseus
was sent on a hopeless quest to killthe Gorgon Medusa, but with the help of the
goddess Athene he accomplished his quest and returned to destroy Polydectes,
rescue his beloved Andromeda, and live happily ever after.
356
The Astrology of Fate
Phaedra (Greek). Daughter of King Minos ofCrete, she became the wife of the hero
Theseus, King of Athens. She felldesperately in love with his son, Hippolytus,
but her advances were refused. In desperation she hung herself, leaving a
suicide note explaining that Hippolytus had raped her. In rage Theseus cursed
his son, only finding out the truth after the curse had been fulfilledand the god
Poseidon had destroyed Hippolytus with a giant bull from the sea.
Phlegethon [Greek). One of the rivers of the underworld. The name means
'burning'.
Phrixus [Greek). A prince of lolkos, he and his sister Helle escaped the wrath of
their wicked stepmother on the back of a golden ram sent by Zeus. Helle felloff
into the sea and drowned, but Phrixus arrived safely in Colchis at the court of
King Aeetes, where he sacrificed the ram. Its fleece became the Golden Reece
which the hero Jason later stole.
Pluto [Roman). The god of the underworld, equivalent to the Greek Hades . His
name means 'wealth'.
Polydeuces (Greek). Called Pollux in Latin, he was the mortal twin of the pair
associated with the constellation of Gemini. His brother Castor was immortal.
being a son of Zeus. In a fight with another pair of twins, Idas and Lynceus,
Polydeuces was killed and had to descend to the underworld. Castor mourned
so bitterly that Zeus permitted them to spend alternate times in the underworld
and on Mount Olympus together.
Poseidon [Greek). Originally a fertilitydeity, he became the god ofearthquakes and
of the ocean depths. He is portrayed both as a horse and as a giant bull. He is
called 'the husband of the Mother'.
Prometheus (Greek). One of the race of Titans, he stole fire from the gods to give to
man. He was punished for this crime by being chained to a rock in the Caucasus
Mountains, where an eagle came every day toeat his liver. Eventually he was set
free by the hero Herakles, Prometheus is a culture-hero, who taught the arts of
mathematics, husbandry, agriculture, prophecy and architecture to man. In
early versions of the myth he is said to have created man from clay.
Proteus (Greek). A sea god, he is called 'the old man of the sea', and is portrayed
with a fish's tail. He is a seer and can change his shape into any animal form. If
he is securely bound and permitted to move through his transformations then
he will eventually take his proper shape and offer an oracle.
Psyche (Greek). A mortal woman with whom the god Eros fellin love. Aphrodite,
Eros' mother, was furiously jealous of Psyche's beauty, and connived to destroy
her. But Eros abducted her and married her, demanding only that she refrain
from looking upon his face. Psyche's curiosity forced her to hold a lamp up to
the sleeping god's face, and in revenge he lefther. She pursued her lost love, but
Aphrodite threw harsh labours and obstacles in her path. Eventually she passed
these tests and was reunited with Eros and made immortal.
lUhu [Hindu). A demon who devours the sun during the time of a solar eclipse.
Astronomically, Rahu is equated with the moon's north or ascending node.
Remus [Roman). One of a pair of twins fathered by the war god Mars, Remus was
the 'bad' twin. He and his brother were suckled by a she-wolf and grew up to
found the city of Rome. When the site had been chosen, however, Remus tried
to murder his brother, and was himself killed.
Rhea [Greek). One of the many names for the earth goddess, Rhea was a Titaness
and wife-sister to the god Krenos. When Kronos swallowed his children to
prevent them from usurping his power, Rhea hid the youngest, Zeus, and
substituted a stone wrapped in swaddling clothes, which Kronos ate instead .
Then Rhea armed Zeus so that he might lead a rebellion against his father, who
was eventually overthrown.
Romulus (Roman). One of a pair of twins fathered by the war god Mars, Romulus
was the 'good' twin. He and his brother Remus were suckled by a she-wolf and
Glossary of Mythological Names
357
grew up to found the city of Rome. When Remus tried to murder Romulus,
Romulus managed to defend himself and killed his brother instead.
Saturn (Roman). Analagous to the Greek Krenos, Saturn was a fertility god and
patron of the harvest. His character in Roman myth is quite benign, and his
Golden Age was a time of harmony and peace on earth when men enjoyed the
fruits of the soil without strife. Each year he was celebrated by the Saturnalia , a
time of license and abandonment, honouring the lecherous and fertile aspect
of the god .
Sekhmet (Egyptian). A solar goddess, she is portrayed with a lion's head . She was
associated with the raging heat of the summer sun, and is a battle goddess and
a goddess of vengeance. She is analagous to the Hindu Kali.
Semele (Greek). One of Zeus' lovers, she was the mother of the god Dionysos. (In
other versions of the Dionysos myth, his mother is Persephone.) Rashly
extracting a promise from Zeus to give her whatever she wished, she
demanded that he appear before her in his true form. Zeus manifested as
thunder and lightning, and Semele was incinerated. Hermes saved the fetus in
her womb and sewed it into Zeus' thigh until the nine months were complete
and the child could be born.
Set (Egyptian]. The god of darkness and evil, he was responsible for the destruc-
tion of his brother Osiris. His sister Isis collected the dismembered pieces and
brought the dead god back to life again. Set is sometimes portrayed as a
serpent, with whom the sun god Ra fights each night in the bowels of the
underworld; each morning the sun god rises victorious for another day, only
to descend again to battle with Set the following night .
Siegfried (Teutonic]. Also called Sigurd, he is best known in Nordic and Teutonic
sagas for his slaying of the dragon Fafner. Wagner made him the fearless hero
of the Ring,where he is the child of an incestuous brother-sister union . Raised
by the dwarf Mime, he slays the dragon Fafner and obtains the Niebelung gold
and the ring of power. After pledging marriage vows to the Valkyrie Brun-
hilde. he abandons her for another woman and is murdered by treachery .
Sisyphus [Greek). A mortal who betrayed Zeus' divine secrets and was punished
in the underworld by being made to roll a great rock up a hill and having to
watch it roll down again forever.
Str- (Greek). One of the rivers of the underworld, Styx formed the boundary
between the realm of mortals and the realm of dead souls. The name means
'poison'.
Tammuz (Babylonian). A youthful vegetation god, he is associated with his
mother-lover, the great fertility goddess Ishtar. He met his death while
hunting, when a giant boar killed him. In company with Adonis, Osiris and
Attis, he was worshipped as an eternally dying and resurrected god.
Tantalos, Tantalus (Greek). A king of Lydia who offended the gods and was
punished by being submerged in the underworld for eternity in a pool of water
which he could not drink, tempted by fruit which he could not eat. (See
p.89.)
Tartaros, Tartarus (Greek). Sometimes the name given to the underworld in its
entirety, but more often the name for that special part of Hades' realm where
crimes against the gods are punished by terrible torments.
Teiresias (Greek). A blind seer, he warned Oidipus of his unwitting incest. In his
youth, Teiresias was turned into a woman, and spent seven years in this form.
Then his manhood was restored. Because of this unique experience, Zeus
asked him to resolve an argument the god was having with Hera. Teiresias
offended the goddess with his answer and she struck him blind. Zeus gave
him the gift of prophecy in compensation.
Tethys (Greek). Another name for Thetis, the goddess of the sea.
Thanatos (Greek]. The son of the goddess Night, he was the god of death, and
358
The Astrology of Fate
served Hades by providing him with subjects. He is generally portrayed as a
winged spirit . His brother Hypnos is the god of sleep.
Theseus (Greek). Son of the god Poseidon by a mortal woman, he became King of
Athens. Among his many adventures was the slaying of the Cretan Minotaur,
which lived in the heart of a labyrinth and fed on human flesh. Theseus found
his way into the labyrinth and out again with a ball of thread given to him by
King Minos' daughter Ariadne, whom he later abandoned on the island of
Naxos.
Thetis (Greek). Goddess of the sea, she was the mother of the hero Achilles by a
mortal man, Peleus.
Thyestes (Greek). Brother of King Atreus of Mykenai, he avenged himself for
Atreus' murder of his children by pronouncinga curse on his brother'sline. (See
p.89.)
Tiamat (Babylonian). The primal mother goddess, she is portrayed as a giant sea
monster. Her son Marduk slew her and carved up her body to create the
physical universe.
Trojan War (Greek). The theme of Homer's great poetic epic, the Iliad, the Trojan
War was an historical event as well as a mythic theme. The Greek city states,
enraged by the kidnap of Helen, wife of King Menelaos of Mykenai, by a Trojan
prince, used this incident as an excuse to invade Troy (located in what is now
modem Turkey), which had long been envied for its gold and wealth . The
Greeks managed to get their troops within the Trojan gates through the famous
gift of the Trojan Horse, a huge hollow wooden horse in which the Greek
soldiers were hidden. In the Iliad, the gods line up on either side of the conflict,
and the human battle is reflected by a battle between Olympian deities . Troy's
King Priam was slain and the city was razed to the ground.
Uranus (Roman). Equivalent to the Green Ouranos, he is the original god of
heaven.
Valhalla (Teutonic). The abode of the gods, it is roughly equivalent to Mount
Olympus in Greek myth .
Valkyrie (Teutonic). A warrior goddess, daughter of the storm god Wotan. The
Valkyrie follow battles and cany the souls of dead heroes up to Valhalla for an
eternal round of partying and glorious fighting.
Venus (Roman). Goddess of beauty and sensual love, she is the equivalent of the
Greek Aphrodite.
Vulcan (Roman). The divine smith and artisan, he is the equivalent of the Greek
Hephaistos. Vulcan was married to the goddess Venus, who was perpetually
unfaithful to him.
Wotan (Teutonic). Equivalent to the Norse Odin and the Greek Zeus, he is a
multifaceted deity . He is ruler of the gods and the lord of storm and chaos. He is
also a magician and a battle god. He sacrificed one of his eyes to obtain wisdom
from the sacred spring at the foot of the World-Ash, and has as his companions
two ravens.who fly far and wide bringing him tidings of all that goes on in the
world. He also bears a certain resemblance to the Hebrew Yahveh, for Wotan is
also a god of covenants and laws, and exhibits a similar bad temper.
Yahveh (Hebrew). Another name forJehovah, the god of the Old Testament who is
the God of Israel.
Ygdrasil (Teutonic). The World-Ash. The world in Teutonic myth is imaged as a
tree of prodigious dimensions. Its foliage is always green. Its roots reach down
into the subterranean kingdom and its boughs rise to the heights of the sky and
to Valhalla, the abode of the gods. Under one of its roots is the fountain of the
Noms or Fates.
Zagreus (Greek). The name means 'restored to life'. It is generally given as an
epithet to Dionysos, who was dismembered by the Titans and brought back to
life again . It is also sometimes used as a title for Zeus, king of the gods.
Glossary of Mythological Names
359
Zethus [Greek). One of a pair of mythic twins. Zethus was the more warlike and
aggressive, while his brother Amphion was a poet and musician. The twins
fought constantly over these differences.
Zeus [Greek). The name means 'lightener' or 'he who gives enlightenment'. King
of the gods. he is the ruler of thunder and lightning and storm. He is the Great
Father, giver of gifts. and is also portrayed as highly promiscuous, forever
pursuing new erotic conquests. He is married to Hera, who is also his sister, and
is the son of Kronos the Titan. Kronos received a prophecy that one of his sons
would one day overthrow him. and so proceeded to swallow all his children.
Zeus. the youngest. was hidden by his mother Rhea, and a stone was substi-
tuted instead. When Kronos eventually vomited up the stone and all the other
children with it, Zeus led them in rebellion and became ruler of the gods .
Index
abaissement dueniveau mental 42, 275
Acheron, River 44, 347
Achilles 173, 201, 202, 207, 263,
347,355
Actaeon 127
Adler, Gerhard 269-72
Adonis 243, 347, 348, 352, 357
Aeetes 177-8, 347
Aegisthus 347, 352
Aerope 90
Aeschylos (Aeschylus) 19, 29-30,
36,57, 252,3SO, 354
Aesculapius; see Asklepios
affects 275
Agamemnon 90-1, 190, 347, 352,
354
Agrippa, Cornelius 129, 131, 142
Ahriman (Angra Mainyu) 347, 353,
354
Ahura Mazda; see Ormuzd
Alberich 76, 193,347
alchemy 35, SO, 75, 123-5, 126, 192,
195,201,210,120,126-7,234
Alighieri, Dante 2, 22, 48, 1%
'Alison' 320-32
Alkestis 171
Amaltheia 159, 249, 250, 347
Ammon 176, 347
Amphion 189, 192, 347
Amphitrite 159
Ananke 347
Anaximander 3
ancestral sin 90, 95, 127, 181
Ancient Mariner, The 68
androgyny 192, 198, 261, 264, 349,
351
Andromeda 171, 348, 355
'Angela' 78-9
Angelus Silesius 201
anima 152, 179, 219, 229
anima mundi130
animus 80, 134
Antigone 165
Antiope 189
Anubis 121, 348
Aornis, River 44, 348
Aphrodite (Venus):analogous with
Jnanna 352;as battle-goddess
187;birth 348; competes with
Graces 124, with Hera and
Athene 355; 'cow-eyed' 185;
hostile to Artemis J94; instigates
Trojan War 187;jealousof Psyche
356; punishes Teiresias 124;
seduces Anchises 187; unfaithful
wife of Hephaistos 351
Apollo 18,20, SO, 118,186,209,329,
348,352-3,354
Apuleius of Madaura 9
Aquarius 128, 250-7
Aquinas, St Thomas 280
archetypal images 11, 25-7, 33, 36,
79,95,99,129,169,177,198,214,
241,245
Ares (Mars) 51, 176, 348
Argos 90, 118,354
Argus 352
Aries 176-83
Aristotle 125
Artemis: associated with Bast 349,
with Hekate 348, 351; Ephesian
deity 213;identified with Diana
348;lunar goddess 175;offended
by Agamemnon 90-1, by Orion
128;virginal qualities 186,194;see
also Hekate
Arthurian legends 243, 355;see also
Parsifal
Asklepios (Aesculapius) II, 127,
239,348
Astraea(~ke)212, 221-2, 348,349
astrological: aspects 58-60, 97, 266,
291; houses 54-5; parts 145;
symbolism 51
362
The Astrology of Fate
astrology: Arabic 145, 149; and
family therapy 92-8; Hellenistic
2; horary 295-6; Indian 149, 155;
medieval 70, 122, 143; modern 4,
7, 30, 33, 36-8; predictive 143;
rejected by theologians 280;
Renaissance 143
Asvins348
Atargatis 213, 220, 258, 348, 352
Athene: aids Jason 178, Perseus
355, and Libra 221; appeases
Erinyes 45, 158; born from head
of Zeus 251; competes with Hera
and Aphrodite 223, 355;
daughter of Zeus 348; punishes
Medusa 229, 3SO; wisdom of
Zeus 229
Atreus 90, 120, 180, 347, 348, 355,
358
Atropos 13, 18, 27, 348
Attis 243, 258, 347, 348, 352; see a/so
Adonis
Atum (Ra) 1%, 349
Augustine of Hippo, St 280, 281
Aulis 90-1
Aurigemma, Luigi (quoted) 51
autism 99-110, 155, 290, 313
Babylon 221, 258, 261
Bach, Johann Sebastian 85, 117
Bachofen, Johann J. 28-9
Baldur 193,349
Barnfield, Richard 235
Bast 263, 349; see also Artemis
'Bates' family 284-312, 313
Bergmann, I. 1
Black Mother (Kali) 35~
Blake, William 211, 250
Blancheflor 208
Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna 122
Boer, Charles 128
Boethius, Anicius Manilius S. 2
Brunhilde 357
Bruno, Giordano 129, 131
Buddhism lSI, 185, 187, 274
bull: Cretan 183, 351, 353, 355;
Mithraic 185, 353; Poseidon as
356; Zeus as 183, 350; see II/SO
Taurus
cacodaimon 147, 148
Cadmos 262
Caliban 72
Calvin, Jean 2-3, 281
Campbell, Joseph 166, 170, 177,
184, 2~5
Cancer 1%..203
cannibalism 84, 89, 90
Capricorn182,242-SO,329,330;see
II/SO Ea
Caput Draconis 145, 149
'Caroline' 68-70, 92
Cassiopeia 348
Castor 190, 192-3, 349
castration 65, 141, 158, 187, 208,
242,348, 349, 3SO, 352, 355
Cauda Draconis 145, 149-50
Celts 27, 175
Cepheus 348
Cerberus 39, 44, 349
Ceres; see Demeter
Chagall, Marc 199
Chaldeans 196
Charites; see Graces
Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor
ISO
Charles, Prince of Wales 12
Charon 42, 349
Cheiron (Centaur): begotten by
Ixion on Nephele 238-9, 354, or
by Kronos on Philyra 239; foster
parent of Asklepios 348, of Jason
177,352; wounded 173, 239
Chelae (the Scorpion's Claws)
220-2
Christianity 2-3,48,77, 123, 248
Chrysippos (son of Pelops) 9,90,
163; (Stoic) 166, 314
clairvoyance 283, 286
Oeanthes 281-2
Clotho 13, 18, 27, 349
Cocytus, River 44, 349
Colchis 177-8, 351, 352, 353
Coleridge: Mary Elizabeth 183;
Samuel Taylor 68
collective unconscious 129,198,312
contract 236
Corinth 163, 179
Cornford, F. M. 3, 19, 167
Index
363
Cornucopia 249, 347
Corpus Hermeticum 19,124,126,127,
128,242
corruption 57, 233
creation 127, 157-60, 199-200
Crete 157, 172,350,353,355
Cromwell, Oliver 2, 3
Cronus (Kronos): castrates
Ouranos 187, 242, 355; eats own
children 243, 356; equivalent of
Saturn 349; father of Cheiron 239,
of Demeter 349, of Hades 351, of
Zeus 347; mate of Eurynome
157, of Philyra 239; subordinate
to Moira 28; see also Saturn
crucifixion 243-4, 248
cuckoo 158
Cybele; see Kybele
Dactyls 158, 349
Daedalus 183-4, 349
daimon 2, 66,84, 108, 109, 127, 148,
167, 168, 173, 199,203,261,266,
350
Dallas 108
Danae 355
'Das ewig Weibliche' 17
death 6,21,28,34,37, 3S-9, 41,
148, 152
Demeter (Ceres): associated with
Virgo 213; eats portion of Pelops
355; goddess of agriculture 349;
mother of Persephone 40-1, 355
depression 44, 151
Devil, The 53, 152, 314, 347; see also
Satan
Dia; seeGaia
Diana; see Artemis
Dictean Cave 157
Dike 238, 349; see also Astraea
Dionysos 172, 205, 262-3, 347, 349,
353,354,355
Dis; see Pluto
doctors 11-12, 38
Donnington, Richard 193
dreams: erotic 151-2, 216; Ficino's
130; of black people 75--6,82-3,
84, 132, 137; of boat 133-4; of
death 43; of father 13>-.7; of
journey to house 140-1; of lonely
road 67-8; of mummy 60, 62-3;
of murder 78--80; of prison 246;
of prostitution 216; permeated
by myth 170
dualism 143
Ea 250, 258, 350
Eastern philosophy 124-5, 279
eclipse 292
ego 31, 84, 111, ISS, 244-5, 276
Egypt 175, 176, 187, 1%--7, 205,
220, 256
Eileithyia 28, 350
Einstein, Albert 261
Eirene 238
Elektra 181
Eliot, T. S. 206, 243
Elizabeth I, Queen 212-13
Elizabeth II, Queen 184
Empedocles 125
Enke 45--6,58,350
Epimetheus 251,253,350
Erda (Urd) 350, 354
Ereshkigal 40, 42, 45, 58, 350, 352
Erinyes 17, 19,29,36,44, 165,350,
352,354
Eros 194, 195,350,356
eroticism 72, 186, 205, 209, 234
Ethiopia 348
Ethiopian (in alchemy) 75
Eumenides 36, 350; set alsoErinyes
Eunomia 238
euphemisms 36, 42, 350
Euridice 354
Euripides I, 163, 165, 246
Europa 350, 353
Euryale; see Gorgons
Eurynome 157-8, 238, 350
Fafnerl84, 229, 350, 357
fairies, fairy tales 22, 23-5, 84, 194
family: as social system 92-3; curse
92, 110, 116; daimon 108;
darkness 134-5; destruction of
53; fate and the --- 89-121;
horoscopes 92-3, 102-7, 106-10,
284-312; 'signature' 300; sins
121; therapy 91-2, 94-8
Gaia ([ija, Rhea) 349, 350, 354
Gandhi, Mohandas K. 231
Ganymedes 256
Garbo, Greta 218
Gauricus, Lucas (Luca Gaurica)
143-5, 146-8, 150-1, 152, 290
Hades 34, 36, 48, 350,351,354, 355;
see also Pluto, Tartarus
Hapi 256, 351
Harding, Esther 217,218
harlot 235
Harrison, Jane 225
Hathor 187, 351
hatred 44
Heathcliffe 72
Heavenly Charioteers 348
Heimarmene 2,4, 19, 121,123, 281,
312,320
Hekabe (Hecuba) 223
Hekate 17, 39,157; see also Artemis,
Hathor
Hektor 173
Helen of Mykenai 90, 190,224,351,
355
Helios 177
Hell 48
Helle 177, 351
The Astrology ofFate
Gemini 189-96, 274, 349, 356
Giants 251
Gnosticism 19, 125, 142-3,
215
goat 262
goat-fish 249, 250
.Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von:
'daemon' as supreme power 312;
Faust 232;quoted 13; view of
astrology 142
Golden Age 158, 212, 357
Golden Fleece 171, 177, 347, 352,
356
Gorgons, 31, 40, 172, 229-30, 350,
351,355
Graces, the Three 224, 238, 350
Graiai 17, 230, 351
Grail 206, 215, 249, 355
Grand Cross 266
Grand Trine 112, 329, 330
Graves, Robert 44, 171, 172, 201,
225, 230, 235, 249, 257
Great Mother 30-1, 79, 196, 203,
228,236,259
Great Work 126, 210
Greek philosophy 2,3-4, 19
Grimm, J. and J. 86-8, 335-41
364
Fasolt 184, 350
fatalism 2, 123, 143
Fate: alternative terms for 2-8; - --
and the family 89-121; and the
feminine 17-35; and the self
313-41; and synchronicity
269-312; and transformation
127-156; and the unconscious
26-8, 79; as instinct 22, 25;
astrologists' attitudes to 7; causal
and acausal312; Hesiod's view
of 6; medical attitudes to 11-12;
Neoplatonic view of 167;
Novalis's view of 8, 14;
personified 48; philosophical
attitudes to 9, 18, 19;
psychological attitudes to 6-7;
religious attitudes to 2--4;
striving against 20-1
Fates, the Three 350
father 135, 176, 177-83,216,243-6
Faust 231-2
femininity: and fate 17-35; mythic
image of 18; role of motherhood
21-2
Ficino, Marsilio 122,125-8,129-30,
131, 142, 143--4, 148, 152-3
fish 258--60
Fisher-King 207
folklore, folk tales 1, 75-6, 85-8,
175,335-41
Fordham, Michael 100, 103, 111-12
foreknowledge, divine 280, 281
Fortuna 48, 213
Franz, Marie-Louise von 126, 208
Frazer, Sir James G. 244
free will 123
Freud, Sigmund 21-2, 34, 47, 72,
166, 181, 231
Friedrich, Paul 186
Frigg 349
Furies 159
Index
365
Henri II, king of France 143-8,
150-1, 152, 153, 289, 290, 313
Hephaistos (Vulcan) 188-9, 253,
351,355
Hera: aids Jason 178-9; competes
in beauty contest 223, 355;
destroys children of Lamia 353;
escapes seduction by Ixion 49,
352,354; hostile to Herakles 197,
204, 351; jealous of 10354;
protects children 163; quarrels
with Zeus357;reactsadversely to
ugliness of Hephaistos 351; wife
of Zeus 71, 351
Heraclitus (Herkleitos) 18, 19,53,
125
HerakJes (Hercules) 171, 197,204,
228-9, 239, 256, 351, 356
Hermes: ambiguous nature 192;
commissions Paris as judge 223;
equivalent to Anubis 348; gives
lyre to Amphion 189; lord of
borders and ways 130, 195;
parentage 351, 353; steals
Apollo's cattle 194; trickster 175;
see also Enki
'Hermes Trisrnegistus' 124, 126, 195
Herms 195
hero and dragon 123, 228
Hesiod 6, 70, 212, 242, 350
Hickey, Isabel 272-4, 282
Hill, P. 101
Hillman, James ~5, 36, 49, 56, 248
Hitler, Adolf 112, 184, 187
Homer 70, 202, 237, 242, 354, 358
Hone, Margaret 5, 122, 142
horoscope(s): approaches to 7, 13;
computer-calculated 145; family
294-9; fantasised for Orestes 99;
intersection with myth 166;
medieval 142; Pluto in 52-88;
Renaissance 143-8; retribution in
33,35
hostile brothers motif 190, 191, 204
hubris 20,33,48-9,50-1,52-3, 120,
127, 171, 179
Hydra 197, 228-9, 230-1, 349, 351
Hypnos 358
hypochondria 109
I Ching 7, 283
lamblichus 129
Ichthys 258-60, 348, 351-2; see also
Adonis
id 47,85
Ida, Mount 158
Idas 190,349, 356
Ideas 129
identified patient 91-2, 99
Iliad 70-1, 202, 358
Inanna 39, 41, 60, 67, 69, 71, 348,
352
incest 6, 90, 357
incubi and succubi 18
individuation 210, 314, 319, 327,
331
instincts 22, 25-7
10183,352
lokaste (locasta) 164, 353, 354
lolkos 177-9, 352
Ionian philosophers 3
Iphigeneia 91
Ishtar 39, 185, 347, 348
Isis 213, 352
ivy264
Ixion 49, 186, 352, 354
Jaffe, Aniela 311-12, 314, 315, 327,
331
Jason 171, 177, 347, 352
Jehovah; see Yahveh
Jesus Christ 9, 41, 67, 85, 191, 243,
258
Job 120, 180, 227, 228, 250, 352
Jocasta; see lokaste
John the Baptist 250
Jones, Marc Edmund 295
Judas 85, 191
Jung: C. G. 7, 11, 13, 25-8, 33, 73,
78, SO, 97-a, 116, 117-18, 124,
128, 130, 166, 167, 174, 195-6,
198, 205, 314, 318, 319; Emma
207-a, 209--10
Jupiter 71, 235, 274; see also Zeus
Kabbalism 142
kairo» 7, 126, 127
Kali40, 263, 352
karma 3--4, 8, 83, 124, 154, 167
366
The Astrology of Fate
ker 167, 173
Kerenyi, O. 164, 167-8, 172, 194,
261
Ketu 352
Khefri 196
Klytaemnestra (Oytemnestra) 44,
91, 99, 120, 190, 347, 352, 354
Koran 196, 260
Kore 78, 218-19
Kreon 164
Kronos; see Cronus
Kybele (Cybele) 204,348,352
labyrinth 184, 349, 358
Lachesis 13, 18, 19, 27, 352
Laios (Laius) 163, 181, 352-3
lame gods: Asklepios 11, 348;
Cheiron 240; Hephaistos 188-9,
350,351
Lamia 39, 353
Lao-tzu 278-9
Lapiths 352
Lawrence, D. H. 72
Layard, John 214
Leda 190, 224, 351
Lenin, N. 184
Leo 53-4,68,69, 108-9, 182,203-11
Lethe, RJver44, 353
libido SO, 128, 151
Libra 43, 52, 68, 182, 212, 220-8
Lilly, William 122
Iion(s) alchemical 205;Cybele's 204,
352; -headed goddess (Sekhmet)
357; Nemean 351; royal 205
Lloyd-Jones, Hugh 197
Loge (Loki) 46, 349, 353; see also
Enki
Logos 211
Lucian ISO
Luke, St 242
Luther, Martin 231
Lynceus 190, 349
Maat 221, 353
madness: inflicted by Dionysus
172,263,355; inflicted by Erinyes
30, 350; Orestes punished with
352,354
Maenads 264, 353, 354, 355
magic and sorcery: Aeetes as
magician 177;alchemical 126,
127;early 123;Hekate goddess of
351;Hermes as magician 195;Isis
as magician 352; Medea as
sorceress 178, 352; natural 142,
144; Renaissance 123-4, 129, 195,
Wotan as magician 358
Maia 194;see also Nyx
Malachi 176
mania 264
Mann, Thomas 196
Mars 81-2, 190, 356; see also Ares
Marx, Karl 184
Maternus, Julius Firmicus 129,142,
143, 146
Mathesis (Matheseos Libri VIII) 142-3,
145--6, 147
mJlYa 124, 125
Mayo, Jeff 5
Medea 171,178,347,352,353
Medusa; see Gorgons
Mellors 72
Menelaos of Mykenai 90,224,351,
355,358
Mephistopheles 231-3
Mercury 192, 195, 353; see also
Hermes
Mesmer, Friedrich Anton 142
Milton, John 228, 232
Mime 357
Minos 183, 187, 349, 350, 355
Minotaur 172, 184, 349, 353, 355,
358
Minuchin, Salvador 92-3
Mirandola, Pica della 131, 142
mistletoe 349
Mithras 185, 187,353
Mnemosyne 354
Moira: and linus mllndus 312;as
creative force 28-9; concept 2, 20;
definition 3, 199; fairy tales and
25; feminine nature of 167, 279;
Greek concern with 2, 19;
identified with Ananke 347; in
the unconscious 85--6, 94-5;
Providence and 316; theological
dilemma regarding 281;
transgressions against 49
Index
367
Moirai, the Three 17, 348, 349, 352;
see also Atropos, Clotho, Erda,
Lachesis, Noms
monomyth 170
monsters: Amemait 353; Cerberus
39, 349; Minotaur 349, 353, 355,
358; sea- 204, 348; Sphinx 164-5;
Tiamat 199,353, 358;Typhon
258-9
Moon: and Uranus 114-16; deities
157,175,213,352,354,356;nodes
zso-r
Morrish, Ivor 191
Mother cults 123
'Mother Holle' 85-8
Muller, Karl O. 261-2
Murray, Gilbert 2,4
Muses 164, 238, 354
Mykenai (Mycenae) 90, 355, 358
mystery cults 142
myth: and fairy tales 25; as image
168;classical 39; dictionary
definition of 28 163; nuances of
166; of Hades 38-9; of Oidipos
1~; of Tartaros SO; and zodiac
169, 176-266
name transfer 94
Namtar 39, 3SO
natural law 3, 6, 8, 18,25.28,30. 49,
85, 129
Necessity 57,347
Nekhebet; see Eileithya
nemesis 49. 129. ISO
Neo-Plantonism 4-5, 8. 58. 122,
125. 166
Nephele 354
Neptune 53. 117,258,261,274,354;
see also Poseidon
Nereis 200
Neumann, Erich 30-2.71-2. 177-8,
182, 198-9
Niebelheim 347
Niebelungen 350, 357
Nile. River 256. 351
Nixon. Richard 57
NornsI7,27,3SO,354,358
Nostradamus (Michel de
Notre-Dame) 144-5. 150-1
Novalis (Friedrich von
Hardenberg) 8, 14. 168, 169, 170
Nyx (Maia) 17, 350, 351. 353. 354
objective psyche 130
Odin 31
Odysseus (Ulysses) 171. 200, 201,
354
Oidipus (Oedipus) 6, 20, 1~,
171, 353, 354
Okeanos 238, 350
Old Goat 249
Old Man of the Sea 356
Olympos (Olympus), Mount 190,
201,349,350.351,354,356
Ophion 157
opus 209-10, 234
Oracles: Apollonian SO, 90, 163,
165, 348. 352;Maian 194;Protean
356
OresteiIJ 190
Orestes 30, 44, 45-6, 99, 117, 118,
347, 348, 352, 354
orgies 260, 349, 353, 355
original sin 124
Orion 51. 228
Ormuzd 192, 347, 353
Orpheus 47, 171.354
Orphic mysteries 41
Osiris 64. 220, 222. 347. 352, 354
Otto. W. F. 37. 70, 71, 21~11, 236
Ouranos (Uranus) 187, 195, 251.
349.350,354,358
palmistry 7. 154
Pan 243
Pandora 253, 350, 355
Paracelsus (Philippus ab
Hohenheim) 60, 142
Paradise Lost 232
Parcae 355
Paris: abducts Helen 351; judges
beauty contest 223. 355
Permenides 125
Parsifal (Perceval) 13, 171, 206-9,
231,355
parthenogenesis: Ares 70;
Hephaistos 351; Moirai 31
participation mystique 262
R., Renee 99-110, 129, 140, 155
Rahu 149, 356
rape 40-1,49, 74, 7&-7, 80-2, ~,
90,135,155,181,229
redemption 209-10, 243, 248,
264
Redgrave family 108
Reformation 2, 6, 281
Remus; see Romulus
Renaissance 122, 129, 131, 143
Renault, Mary 12, 247
repression 47, 227
Rhadamanthys 183, 350
Rhea 157, 160, 263, 356; see also
Eurynome
Rheingold, Das 76
Rhine Maidens 347
Rilke, Rainer Maria 89, 312
The Astrology of Fate
pomegranate 41
poplars 44, 52
Porphyry 129, 145
Poseidon 159, 165, 200, 229, 230,
348,350,354
potentials 334
Powys, John Cooper 52
predestination 280
Priam 223, 358
Priapus 159,243
prima mJlteria 129-30
Prodigal Son 244
Prometheus 20, 158, 171, 251-2,
349,356
Prometheus Bound 57
Pronoia 281-2
prophecy 7
Proteus (Nereus) 200, 356
Providence, Divine 3, 4, 8, 127,279,
312
Psyche 194, 356
psychic resilience 47
psychoid 278
psychopomp 194, 221, 348, 351
psychotherapy 10-11, 31, 47, 62,
92, 95--6, 111, 131, 283, 326
Ptolemy (Claudius Ptolemaeus)
128-9, 142, 145
w« 244-6
Pythogoras 2, 125
parts (astrological) 145
Pasiphae 183, 355
pathologised modes 56
Pavia, battle of 143
Pegasus 230
Peleus 201,355
PeUas 178, 347, 352
Pelops 163, 181, 355
Penelope 354
Pentheusl72, 262, 263, 355
Perceval; see Parsifal
'perennial philosophy' 122
Perera, Sylvia B. 39-40
Periboia 174
Persephone 40-1,69,211,213,351,
355
Perseus 172, 229-30, 348, 351
persona 174, 291
Phaedra 171, 356
Phaedrus 168-9
phallus, phallism 39,70,72,79,
176, 182, 185, 195, 262
Phlegethon, River 356
Phoebus 210; see also Apollo
Phrixus 351, 356; see also Golden
Fleece
Pilate, Pontius 85
Pisces 257-66
Plato and Platonism 2, 19,34,
123-4,125,167,168-9,222,350
Plotinus 129
Pluto (Dis): and Scorpio 42,211 ;
and Venus 65-70; as judge 49;
change of name 36;
characteristics 36-51; horoscopic
significance 35, 37-8, 168;in
Cancer 52, 53; in Gemini 52; in
Leo 52, 53-4; in seventh house
54-5, 78, 265; in twelfth house 83,
113; mythology of 350, 356
poison 44, 45, 240, 349
poisonous snakes 351
Pollux; see Polydeuces
Polybus 162
polycephalism 44, 197;see also
tricephalism
Polydectes 229, 355
Polydeuces (Pollux) 190, 192-3,
349,356
368
Index
369
rites:of entry 39;of initiation 245;of
passage 247-8
Rome 190, 356
Romulus 190-1, 356-7
runes 236
Russell, Bertrand 2, 13, 2BO, 281
'Ruth'82-6,92, 132-9, lSI, 155,266
ruthlessness 72
S., Timothy: dream 60; family 64;
horoscope 61,73,140; suicide 62,
85,313
Sabazius 243
Sagittarians 173
Sagittarius 235-42
St Matthew Passion 85, 117
Sarpedon 183, 350
Satan 232,352,353; seealso the Devil
Saturn 49, 246, 248, 357; see also
Cronus
scapegoat 81
Scarab (Scarabaeus) 196
Schweitzer, Bernhard 263
Scorpio 42, 47, 51, 22S-34
scrying 7
Sekhmet 71, 204, 263, 357
Self 312
Semele 357
senex209,247, 24S-9
Set: destroys Osiris 64, 352, 354,
357; fights Ra 357
Seventh Seal, The 1
sexuality 4S-5O, 65-70, 72-3, 79-80,
84, 92, 186, 216--17, 227
Shah, Idries 24
Shakespeare, William: Hamlet 220;
Macbeth 17, 31; TheTempest 72,
203
shaman 11
Shelley, Percy Bysshe 257-8
sickle 230, 242-3
Siegfried (Sigurd) 350, 357
sins 4S-9, 85, 89
Sisyphus 48, 357
Skuld; seeNoms
Socrates 10, 167
Song ofBernadette 320
Sparta 71, 238, 349, 351
squares: Mars-Pluto 137, 139, 187;
Jupiter-Pluto 266; Mars-Saturn
147, 151;Saturn-Mercury 113;
Sun-Saturn 151;Sun-Uranus 291,
317; Uranus-Pluto 132
Steiner, Rudolf 122
stepmother 351
Stheino; see Gorgons
Stoicism 4, 121, 281, 312
Stymphalian Birds 351
Styx, RJver202,347, 349, 357
sublimation 316
'Susan' 216--17
synastry 276
synchronicity 7-8, 269-312
syncretism 130, 143
T-cross 114, 119
talismans 129, 131
Tammuz 347, 357; see also Adonis
Tantalos: cursed 90, 91, 121;serves
Pelops for dinner 88, 355, 357;
punished by gods 49,89,357
Tao 279,325
Tarot 7, 172,207,283
Tartaros (Tartarus) 49, 89, 357
Tarzan 72
Taurus 183-9
Teiresias 164, 223, 224-5, 357
Te Paske, Bradley 77-8, BO, 81-2
Terrible Father 249
Terrible Mother motif 19S-9
Tethys; see Thetis
Teutons 27, 46, 171, 227
Thanatos 357-8
Thebes 163, 353, 354,355
Theosophy 122
Theseus 172, 185, 353, 356,
358
Thetis (Tethys) 188, 199, 347, 355,
358
Thyestes 90, lBO, 348, 358
Tiamat 68, 353, 358
Titans 71, 251, 349, 356, 358
Tolkien, J. R. 45, 76
transformation: archetypal 130; in
alchemy and magic 123-4;
mythic 205
tricephalism 39, 44, 48
Trinity 2
Zagreus 158, 159, 355, 358
Zethus 189, 192,359
Zeus: abducts Ganymedes 350;
asks Teiresias to settle quarrel
with Hera 172, 225, 357; carries
off Europa 183, 350; decrees
mortal offspring for Thetis 200;
deposes Cronus 248, 347, 359;
father of Apollo 348, of Castor &:
Polydeuces 190, 349, of [ijonysus
349, of Mnemosyne 354;
illuminative power 17~7;
incineratesSemele 262,357; lover
of Lamia 353; mates with
Eurynome 238,with Themis 238;
pities Castor &: Polydeuces 190,
356; punishes Ixion 352,
Sisyphus 357; quarrels with Hera
357; rapes Demeter 262, Leda
351; subject to fate 13, 200
zodiac 52, 166, 172, 17~266, 283
zoi264
Zoroastrianism 185
Zosimua 126
Yahveh (lehovah) 28, 176, 180,200,
209, 347, 353, 358;see also
Ammon, Marduk
Yates, Frances A. 1~1, 212-13,
220
.
Yggdrasil (World-Ash) 27, 354, 358
Wagner, Richard 17, 76, 193, 196,
347; Parsifal 208; Ringof the
Nibelungen 76, 184, 193, 236, 347,
350,357
wars 53, 90
Watergate 57
Wayne, Philip 232-3
Ulysses; see Odysseus
Underworld 36, 38, 261
unus mundus279, 283,312
Uranus 54, M-5; see also Ouranos
uroboric incest 199
Uroboros 198, 22~7, 228
Urd; s« Erda, Noms
Valhalla 349, 354
Valkyries 357, 358
Venus 65-70, 126, 187; s« also
Aphrodite
Verandi; see Noms
victim 260, 262
vine 263
virgin(ity) 41, 79
Virgin Mary 117, 219
Virgo 108-9, 211-20
vocation 31~17
volcanoes 42
Vulcan; see Hephaistos
370
The Astrology of Fate
Trojan War 90, 187, 224, 347, 351,
werewolf 75
352, 354, 355, 358
Wickes, Frances 94, 95--6, 111
Troy 90, 173, 201, 223, 358
Wilde, Oscar 112
twins: Amphion &:Zethus 189, 347,
witches 31
359; Apollo &:Artemis 348;
wolf: in alchemy 75; in folklore
Asvins 348; Castor &:Polydeuces
75--6; in mythology 190
190,349,356; Idas &:Lynceus 349;
World-Ash; s« Yggdrasil
mythic 347; numinous
World-Snake; see Uroboros
connotation 189; Romulus &:
Wotan 193,227,236,358
Remus 190-1,356
Tyndareos 190, 349
Liz Greene is the author of many books,
including the classic Saturn: A New Look at
an Old Devil. With Howard Sasportas, she
has also written a series that explores psy-
chological astrology; these titles have
become important texts for anyone study-
ing Jungian psychology as it relates to the
symbolism found in astrology. Greene
teaches seminars internationally, and is the
co-founder of the Centre for Psychological
Astrology in London. She currently lives
in Zurich.