Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
COAC Module Two Lesson 2
“Working with Transits”
© www.nodoor.com
I read the section from last week on “Short Term
Transits and Triggers” and I’d like to see some
examples of how this works?
Also, I still have some questions left over from last
week:
1. How do we interpret a transiting planet in different aspect
combinations?
2. When two or more transits happen at the same time how to we
combine these in the interpretation? For example, Saturn transit and Jupiter
transit seem to have an opposite meaning?
3. How to interpret transit of house versus transit of planet?
4. Do we consider the house or the ruler of the house?
5. What is the methodology of interpreting transits?
So, my 7th House Sun in Gemini is being squared by
transiting Neptune, and I know dating two guys at the
same time can be confusing anyway, but the other day I
called “Di” “Li” by mistake at the wrong moment!  Do you
think when Mercury in Sagittarius opposes my Sun I will
finally tell them the truth?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
Examples of transits in the life of Angelina Jolie in 2013
Angelina Jolie’s 3 Medical Procedures: 1. preliminary 2. mastectomy 3.
reconstructive surgery
Angelina’s decision to go very public about her
medical choice is already saving lives by
encouraging other women with a similar
diagnosis to undergo this preventative
procedure.  What in her natal chart would
suggest she would take such a stand?  What
implies she would act upon her principles?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 6
1. Preliminary: The bi-wheel chart above shows the natal chart of
Angelina Jolie in the center with transits for her first medical
procedure in the outer wheel.  On Feb. 2, 2013 starting at 8:00 a.m. in
Los Angeles, California, Jolie had a procedure aimed at preserving her
nipples, which usually are removed when a mastectomy is done to treat
breast cancer. Half of the skin is lifted from the surface of the
breast tissue and a small disc of tissue is taken to be checked for
cancer.  No cancer cells were found.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 7
2. Double mastectomy: The bi-wheel above shows the natal chart of
Angelina Jolie in the center with the transits for her double
mastectomy on February 16, 2013 at 8:00 a.m. in Los Angeles,
California in the outer wheel.  What do you notice about these transits?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 8
3. Reconstructive Surgery: The bi-wheel above shows Angelina Jolie’s
natal chart in the center wheel and the transits of her reconstructive
surgery for April 27, 2013 at 8:00 a.m. in Los Angeles, California in the
outer wheel.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 9
The tri-wheel chart above shows Angelina Jolie’s natal chart in the
center, with the transits of her first procedure in the middle wheel,
and her last procedure of reconstructive surgery in the outer wheel.
Notice how the transits have moved throughout this time frame.  Draw
a line on the chart wheel so you can more easily see the movements of
the planets. Observe how Mars has moved and the transit of Pluto,
which went Retrograde on April 12, 2013.What do you notice about the
transit of Uranus?