Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
MODULE ONE: Lesson 2Natal Chart Organization& Priorities
“Chart Organization HOMEWORK REVIEW”
2. Sun in Libra in the 12th House
Trine South Node sextile North Node, orb 3 degrees 14’
Sextile Saturn, orb 3 degrees 26’
 What does the Sun in Libra mean?
“It means a willingness to cooperate, negotiate and compromise.
Libras will accommodate others to bring about more peaceful
relationships.  Libra attributes often include good social skills,
politeness and diplomacy.  Libras are motivated to create fair and
balanced relationships that contribute to peace and harmony.”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
 What does the Sun in the 12th House mean?
“A 12th House Sun corresponds to someone that is sensitive
to
the complex needs of the masses or collective.  Their
challenge is  to find a fulfilling way to respond to the needs of the
world.  For  some this could be through health or therapeutic
services,
spiritual guidance, or charitable and compassionate
service.”
“Yes, but such sensitivity can sometimes lead to an urge to
escape the world, like a monk or nun, or even a hermit.  Of
course
a monk or nun may render service to their community or
village,
working with people that have been overwhelmed by life
in some
way is a 12th House area, as are hospitals and prisons.
Ashrams
also have a 12th House association.”
“Okay, but how do you combine the Sun in Libra in the
12th House together, what does this mean?”
“A Libra Sun in the 12th House indicates someone that may be
sensitive to others being treated unfairly in the world - compassion
mixes with the urge for fairness.  Of course they may also “identify”
with those who are being treated unfairly.  Identification with the
“underdog” can sometimes lead to seeing themselves, as well as
others, as victims.  Overcoming this victim identification requires
courage, i.e. the Sun!  There is idealism associated with the 12th
House too.  Though Libra in the 12th House is more motivated by relationship
ideals, in the negative sense such a person can feel overwhelmed by life and
become disillusioned with self and others.   The urge for a more consciously
lived spiritual life is associated with this placement, though Libra is a social
sign and less inclined to withdraw in isolation – seeking instead communion with
others behind the scenes, or developing a way to connect with the masses – to
feel connected with the great unseen.  A Libra 12th House Sun might also be
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
really good at behind the scenes negotiations, utilizing Neptunian intuition and
imagination along with Libra people skills.”
What books did you read about Gandhi?
Did you
find correlations with
his Gandhi’s chart?
Consider his Libra Sun in the 12th House, and see the highlighted key
words and overall meaning of these quotes below:
“Like all negotiators, Gandhi saw the big picture.  He was
imaginative and intuitive.  He spoke eloquently.  He was
enormously skilled at handling people.  And he had a deep
compassion for all humankind.  He was also nonviolent,
the core quality of a negotiator.”
“Most precious of all – like every great spiritual figure,
but belonging to our own times – he gives us a
glimpse of our evolutionary potential as human
beings. He shows that the spiritual life, far from being
otherworldly, means living to one’s highest ideals and
giving full expression to every facet of personality in a
life of selfless service.”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
 The Sun is associated with the sign Leo, the sign of the North
Node and sextile the North Node.  What does this imply?
 If he is learning about leadership in this life, what kind of
leader could he be?
“His Leo North Node shows an aptitude for leadership
development, but with his Sun in Libra in the 12th House he is
more suitable as a spiritual leader.  Perhaps in the modern world
he would‟ve become a doctor, or a good therapist or counselor –
becoming a leader in this field.  The sextile between his Sun and
North Node implies “timely” opportunities to develop his
leadership capacity, chances to play a leadership role.”
 What does the sextile from his Sun to Saturn imply?
“This aspect implies more seriousness of purpose perhaps, and the
opportunity to prove himself capable of handling responsibilities,
obligations and work.  The sextile is considered a soft aspect, yet
any contact between the Sun and Saturn suggests some capacity for
discipline, with a potential for strengthening his will.”
 What does it mean to have Saturn in Sagittarius?
“Philosophy and beliefs are taken very seriously.  Their ethical
standards would probably be important to them.  Gandhi‟s
commitment to principles was very strict.  According to everything I
read his belief system was also strongly influenced by religion,
especially Hinduism, but also Christianity, Judaism and Islam too.”  I
suppose a person with Saturn in Sagittarius could be immoral too, like anybody, but
it would seem that even a criminal with Saturn in Sagittarius would still have to
reconcile their behavior with the ethical or legal standards of their society.  In
Gandhi‟s case the sextile with the Sun suggests that his commitment to certain
beliefs supported his resolve, i.e. Saturn supports the Sun.”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
3. Mercury in Scorpio in the 1st House
 What does Mercury in Scorpio mean?
“Mercury in Scorpio shows a mind that is relentless, perhaps an
obsessive thinker.  Such a person would investigate subjects deeply,
probing for flaws or weaknesses in meaning and content.  Once
“bonded” with an idea they might become passionate about that
idea, and want to stir similar feelings in the minds of others.”
 What does Mercury in Scorpio mean in House 1?
“I think this combination could be very intense and show a tendency
to identify strongly with their own ideas.  Scorpio is a sign that
doesn’t reveal their feelings until they are ready, but when they
are ready you will KNOW what they feel!  With Mercury this would
come through the intensity of his words, but also show a mind that
might choose words that really provoked people in some ways.  The First House
is the house of self-interest, so whatever ideas, words, or type of
communication expressed their self-interest would be typical.  Much would
depend upon how this person identified their self-interest.”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 6
Mercury squares the North and South Lunar Nodes, orb 1 degree 44’
 What does Mercury square the Lunar Nodes mean?
“I was born with Mercury square the Lunar Nodes, though in a
different sign.  Noel Tyl says aspects to the Lunar Nodes suggests
something about a person‟s mother, and in my case my Mom worked in
media and PR – which fits the Mercury association, and I read how
Gandhi‟s Mom influenced his thinking early in life.”
“Gandhi shared the struggles in his mind with the world.  I see his 10th
House North Node pulling him to make his ideas public, even the
conflicts of his private life – shown by the square to his 4th House
South Node.  He wrote a journal that was published weekly I think,
and he wrote very candidly about his mental conflicts.”
“My nodes are in different houses.  I have the North Node in the 8th
House and the South Node in the 2nd House, and Mercury in the 11th
house square the nodes.  I find that my friends influence my thinking
a lot, but that I argue with them too.”
“It seems to me that Gandhi argued with himself a lot.  He
confronted his own thinking and then shared this process with the
world.  Gandhi described himself as sexually obsessed as a young man,
fitting his Scorpio Mercury and other Scorpio planets.  I found a lot
of articles and quotes online that talked about Gandhi‟s sex life.
Gandhi took a vow of chastity at the age of 37, but he already had 4 sons.  There
were also articles claiming Gandhi was a homosexual, but
very little evidence to support this.  Late in life, after the
death of his wife, he stirred a lot of controversy because
he chose to sleep with young women which he claimed was
to test his vow and self-control.  He practiced
"brahmachari” a Hindu belief or methodology that claimed
that control of sexual energy would add energy and power
to the practitioner.”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 7
4. Venus in Scorpio in the 1st House
 What does Venus in Scorpio mean?
 What does Venus in Scorpio in House 1 mean?
Conjunct Mars, orb 1 degree 58‟(mentioned below)
Opposite Jupiter, orb 3 degrees 44‟“Inflates and exaggerates feelings perhaps,
but also shows that philosophy or beliefs influence relationships.”
Opposite Pluto, orb 1 degree 13‟“Intensifies the Scorpio theme, and also shows
trust issues with others, and concern about control and manipulation.  Power
battles with others are also indicated.”
Trine Uranus, orb 5 degrees 15 „ “This allows for innovation and experimentation.”
Quincunx Neptune, orb 1 degree 59‟“Adds spiritual influence or sensitivity, more
indications of mother‟s influence spiritually.”
“Gandhi‟s Venus in Scorpio „underscores‟ what I was saying about his strong
sexual drive.  Anyone with this combination would be more passionately
driven by their desire.  The conjunction with Mars increases the need to „act‟
upon these intense feelings in some way.  My comments on the other aspects
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 8
are listed above.”
5. Mars in Scorpio in the 1st House
What does Mars in Scorpio mean?
What does Mars in Scorpio in House 1 mean?
“I think that Gandhiisan exception in terms of most people‟s behavior,
especially men.  This strong emphasis in Scorpio shows a strong sexual drive
regardless, and Gandhi wrestled with his desire nature throughout his life,
finding ways to sublimate this drive and energy into his life‟s mission.”
Opposite Jupiter, orb 1 degree 46‟“This Jupiter aspect shows where he acts upon
his beliefs, and how his beliefs and philosophies influence his actions.”
Opposite Pluto, orb 0 degrees 45‟“This Pluto opposition really represents the
struggle for control over one‟s life.  Rather than take „violent action‟ to overthrow
British Rule Gandhi chose to transform the British through non-violent resistance.
Such “resistance” is still action, but controlled action aimed at the core power of
his enemies – all consistent with a Mars Pluto opposition, as was his death by an
assassin who stood in front of him face to face and shot him.”
Trine Uranus, orb 3 degree 17‟Innovation, and quick movement, ready to try
something new.”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 9
Quincunx Neptune, 0 degree 01‟“A „sensitivity‟ that influences his actions.  I can
see in this aspect the mark of the spiritual warrior – consistent with Mars-
Neptune.
Here is the last list of priorities for Gandhi’s Chart from your Homework:
“I realized that by the time we
get to Jupiter, we have already
listed the positions and the
aspects to the angles and planets
that will count the most in a
person‟s life. Jupiter, Saturn,
Uranus, Neptune and Pluto have already been
considered in our chart analysis!”
“Yes, but I think these planets
must still be taken into account
in order to get a more complete
picture of this person‟s chart
and their potential experiences.
Jupiter in Taurus in the 7th House is a good
example.  Gandhi applied his philosophies to
his marriage.  Even as a teenage husband he
tried to teach his teenage wife how to read.”
“Yes, I read this too, and his wife resisted his attempts; which I think is
shown by the Jupiter Pluto conjunction opposite Mars!  They fought and
struggled over this and other issues as well.  I think anybody with this kind of
heavily aspected 7th House Jupiter would have marital tension regarding
beliefs and philosophy.”
“Right!  There was the famous incident of Gandhi trying to force his wife to
clean the outhouses [outdoor bathrooms], where he was so angry with her that
he dragged her to the gate of their farm and was going to throw her outside
until he realized what he was doing!”
“Does anyone know what the Second House position of Saturn in Sagittarius
means?  I don‟t really understand this?
6. Jupiter in Taurus in the 7th House
Conjunct Pluto, orb 2 degrees 31‟
Sextile Uranus, orb 1 degree 31‟
Semi-sextile Neptune, 1 degree 45‟
7. Saturn in Sagittarius in the 2nd House
Trine Neptune, 6 degrees 03‟
8. Uranus in Cancer in the 9th House
Square Neptune, orb 3 degrees 16‟
9. Neptune in Aries in the 6th House
Semi-sextile Pluto, orb 0 degrees 46‟
10. Pluto in Taurus in the 7th House
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 10
“I think it shows that once he „aligned with his truth‟ his income earning
increased.  He went from being a failed attorney to a very successful
attorney.  He was also able to raise a lot of money for his causes (Sagittarius),
and for charities – maybe the wide trine with Neptune?
“I see the Uranus Neptune square as the challenge of adapting one‟s spiritual
life to the shock of the modern world, but also trying new ways to apply
spiritual principles.  This aspect was in effect for many millions of people
born during that time.  The fact that Gandhi‟s Uranus was conjunct his MC
and square his ASC made this personal.”
“With Neptune in the 6th House he „lived‟ his spiritual life as part of his
routine.  Even his vegetarian diet and meditations were daily spiritual
practices.”
“But, we‟re missing something obvious here, that Gandhi used fasting
to reach the hearts of those who acted violently.  He would fast until
near death, until reports of violence had ceased.  This is really his
Moon square Mars and Pluto to me, you know?  Extreme behavior with
food!  Dramatic public fasts!  Moon in Leo in the 10th square Pluto and
Mars, and Jupiter!”
I‟ve got to read more
about Gandhi, I didn‟t
know he was such an
interesting person?!
She just wants
to find out more
about his sex
life.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 11
More on Finding the Themes in a Birth Chart.
Waxing and Waning Aspects
“Do you remember learning about how aspects were
part of a cycle?”
“Yes, I remember.  Aspects are a division of a cycle,
like the phases of the Moon.”
“Aspects also correlate with the „Signs‟ just like
houses and planets do.  A waxing square or „opening‟
square resonates with the sign Cancer, and a waning
square or „closing‟ square resonates with Capricorn.”
“Yes, I and some other astrologers call the
waxing square an opening square and the waning
square a closing square.” Glenn Perry
“This is confusing to me.  How does knowing this help
me to interpret a birth chart?  Can‟t I just accept
that all squares suggest conflict and leave it at that?”
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 12
“You could, but you would be missing the factors
that can help you find the themes in a birth chart.
Consider these THEME SIGN CATEGORIES listed
in the table below:
Theme Sign Categories
Sign
House
Planet
Waxing/waning aspects
Neptune
3 planets
6 aspects
3 conjunctions
Jupiter, Pluto
1 planet
6 aspects
1 waxing 30°
2 aspects
1 waxing 60°
Uranus
S. Node
6 aspects
2 waxing 90°
Moon, N. Node
3 aspects
3 waxing 120°
Part of Fortune
1 planet
2 aspects
ASCN, Sun
2 planets
6 aspects
4 oppositions
Mercury,
Venus, Mars
6 aspects
2 waning 150°
Saturn
1 planet
6 aspects
1 waning 120°
Moon, N. Node
3 aspects
2 waning 90°
S. Node
Part of Fortune
8 aspects
1 waning 60°
Sun
7 aspects
1 waning 30
GANDHI‟S THEME SIGN COLORS
Aries
House 1
Mars aspects
conjunctions
Taurus
House 2
Venus aspects
waxing
semi-sextile
Gemini
House 3
Mercury aspects
waxing
sextile
Cancer
House 4
Moon aspects
waxing
square
Leo
House 5
Sun aspects
waxing
trine
Virgo
House 6
Mercury aspects
waxing
quincunx
Libra
House 7
Venus aspects
opposition
Scorpio
House 8
Pluto aspects
waning
quincunx
Sagittarius
House 9
Jupiter aspects
waning
trine
Capricorn
House 10
Saturn aspects
waning
square
Aquarius
House 11
Uranus aspects
waning
sextile
Pisces
House 12
Neptune aspects
waning
semi-sextile
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 13
Gandhi‟s Theme Sign Categories:
1. Neptune in Aries, 3 planets in the 1st House, 6 aspects with Mars, 3
conjunctions
2. Jupiter and Pluto in Taurus, 1 planet in the 2nd House, 6 aspects with Venus,
Jupiter waxing semi-sextile Neptune
3. 2 aspects with Mercury, 1 waxing sextile
4. Uranus in Cancer, South Node in 4th House, 6 aspects with the Moon, 2 waxing
squares
5. Moon and North Node in Leo, 3 aspects with the Sun, 3 waxing trines
6. Part of fortune Virgo, Neptune in the 6th House, 2 aspects with Mercury
7. ASCN Libra, Sun in Libra, 2 planets in 7th House, 6 aspects to Venus, 4
oppositions
8. Mercury, Venus, Mars in Scorpio, 6 aspects to Pluto, 2 waning quincunxes
9. Saturn in Sagittarius, 1 planet in 9th House, 6 aspects with Jupiter, 1 waning
trine
10. Moon and North Node in 10th House, 3 aspects with Saturn, 2 waning squares
11. South Node in Aquarius, part of fortune in the 11th house, 8 aspects with
Uranus, 1 waning sextile
12. Sun in the 12th House, 7aspects with Neptune, 1 waning semi-sextile
Adding up Gandhi’s Theme Sign Categories
Examples:
ARIES:
1 planet in Aries
3 planets in the First House
+
6 aspects with Mars
3 conjunctions
Aries Total 13
TAURUS:
2 planets in Taurus
1 planet in the Second House
+
6 aspects with Venus
1 waxing semi-sextile
Taurus Total
10
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 14
Gandhi’s Theme Sign Totals:
13Here the second highest number is due to 3 planets in the 1st House and 6 planets to
Mars + 3 conjunctions.
10 This theme is somewhat inflated by the number of aspects to Venus.
3This low number is significant, but what about the fact that Mercury aspects the
Lunar Nodes?
10Here the 6 aspects with the Moon increase this theme.
8The North Node in Leo and the Moon in Leo are still very important here.
3There really isn’t much of a Virgo or 6th House theme.
14This largest theme is made even more significant by the ASCN and Sun in Libra; plus
notice the oppositions!
11 This is a relatively high number, but the 3 PERSONAL planets in Scorpio and the 6
aspects to Pluto make it stand out more.
9 The 6 aspects with Jupiter substantiate this theme.
7 Not a strong theme by number, but it’s the Moon and North Node in the 10th house!
11 Part of fortune does not have a high priority, but South Node and 8 aspects to
Uranus is significant!
9 The 7 aspects involving Neptune really brings this theme out.
These “Theme Signs” are
interesting. I have an Aquarius
theme in my chart that I never
noticed before.  What did you
find?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 15
Gandhi’s Theme Signs Explained:
Look at the above theme categories.  Which ones would you emphasize and
how? Don‟t just think of this as Gandhi‟s chart.
Notice what you learn by organizing the chart data into these themes.  The Libra theme is the
strongest, followed by the Aries theme.  Scorpio, Aquarius, are equal themes, followed by Taurus and
Cancer.  What does this mean to you when you think about these themes?  Obviously there is tension
between the top 2 themes, Libra and Aries.  Libra is about cooperation and forming relationships,
whereas Aries is about action and self-interest.
However, though only one planet, the outer planet Neptune is in the sign Aries, the Mars theme of
“action” is strong. There are 3 personal planets in the 1st House, thus you would expect this individual
to have a greater degree of physical energy and assertiveness.  Yet you would also see that the Libra
theme is emphasized more, not just by a slight number advantage, but by the Sun and ASCN in Libra.
So this individual‟s outer demeanor (ASCN = personality) would have Libra traits, as would the nature
of their „willingness‟ to cooperate (SUN = Will).  So in this case the action orientation of the
individual is counter balanced by their peaceful cooperative nature.  They still want to “act” to “do
something,” but ever aware of how their actions impact others and influence relationships.  Also,
remember that Scorpio is a “relationship” oriented Sign too, so these first house planets show a „self‟
that is „aware‟ of how their actions impact others.
The other themes emphasized, Scorpio and Aquarius must also be considered.  This Scorpio theme
underscores passion, intensity, concern with trust issues, intimacy, confrontation, obsession, survival,
resources, etc. – all Scorpio associations.  On the highest level Scorpio is about „transformation,‟ i.e.
(from a personal growth perspective), the capacity of an individual to experience a kind of
metamorphosis that fundamentally eliminates or alters destructive patterns.  On the most basic level
Scorpio is about the urge to control one‟s world, especially in terms of close relationships.  Hence
control battles, manipulation, jealously and possessiveness would be experienced to a significant
extent.  These 6 aspects with Pluto really indicate the potential for power struggles, especially the
oppositions – being tension aspects, and increase the likelihood of a more intense life, marked by
crisis, loss, the threat of violence, or having to deal with catastrophic events beyond their control.
The emphasis on Aquarius is made more interesting by the fact that his South Node is in Aquarius!
We know how important the South Node is in terms of the habit patters and security patterns basic
to one‟s nature.  Likewise the „karmic‟ connotation of the South Node must be considered, if you are
at all interested in the soul growth issue, i.e. reincarnation, etc.  However, even if one did not „impose‟
this philosophy upon the astrological symbolism, the result of such an emphasis in Aquarius, suggests
and individual that is both aware and concerned about both how he fits in to society and what his
contribution is.  Aquarius is about the relationship between the one and the many, between the
„individual‟ and the „group.‟  The question that would be natural for this person to ask is, “where do I
fit in?” Or, “Where do I belong?”  However, the strong Angular aspects with Uranus suggest some
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 16
individual quirks, or exceptions.  For example, the square between his ASCN and Uranus denotes a
personality that is challenged to reinvent itself, to seek new ways to define their personality – still
Libra Rising, but a „different‟ kind of Libra Rising.  This is made more of an issue by the conjunction
with his MC, which suggests that he is also attempting to redefine himself in public life, seeking a
„different‟ kind of career – a more unique or original expression of who he is out in the world.
Uranus stirs a bit of both originality and „rebellion‟ in people.  Uranus conjunct his MC implies that he
might not be all that settled with a „conventional‟ career, that going about his profession in the usual
way just doesn‟t seem to work.  Hence, those with Uranus conjunct the MC will often gravitate
towards unusual or unconventional careers, which often happens with sudden and unexpected
circumstances, or even so called „chance‟ occurrences that temporarily „shock‟ the individual but
awaken them to new possibilities.  Of course, Uranus can also indicate instability and uncertainty; so
you would expect his public life and career circumstances to have been uneven.  The significance of
his South Node being in Aquarius will be discussed more at length further along, but suffice to say
that this Aquarian underpinning shows an innate familiarity with this more detached way of being in
the world and implies a soul that has wrestled with the relationship between the one and the many
for a long time, especially in the „objective‟ manner that defines Aquarius as the observer of life.
The strong Uranian theme implies „unfinished karmic business‟ but also that which is in the process
of being completed.
The Cancer theme is bolstered by the aspects with the Moon.  This theme is about home, family,
emotional security and private life.  Gandhi‟s family life makes fascinating and revealing reading.
However, we will discuss this more later.  Suffice to say, that with Uranus in Cancer he was born into
a subgroup of a generation more inclined to experiment with family or deal with domestic disruptions;
which in Gandhi‟s case was certainly true.  He was famous for experimental communal living in both
South Africa and in India.  Uranus opposite his IC would increase the likelihood of novel urges to
experiment with private life and environment, which would also resonate with his South Node in
Aquarius in the 4th House.  In addition the many hard aspects to his Moon imply very challenging
emotional and family circumstances, and with his Moon in the 10th House it would be difficult to hide
the ups and downs of his private family life.  In fact, over the course of his life, especially after the
age of forty, he increasingly made his private life an open book for all to see, often presenting in
public forums and in his writings the struggles of his family life.
The Taurus theme is inflated by the aspects to Venus, my bias being that with the
“important” ASC and Sun in Libra, these aspects to Venus resonate more with the Libra
theme of his chart than with Taurus.  Nonetheless, his Jupiter in Taurus must be taken
into account when considering this theme, and Gandhi wanted to improve the “material”
lives of the Indian people.  One of his first mass protests in India involved a pay raise
for factory workers that were on strike.  So Gandhi wanted to see practical results that you could
measure in terms of improved material conditions.
The Sagittarius theme and the Pisces theme are tied for 6th place, and since these 2 signs are
naturally square each other this could suggest conflict between his philosophy and his inspiration. Yet
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 17
this conflict also challenges him to reconcile concepts with compassion.   In terms of the Pisces or
Neptune theme, Gandhi‟s 12th House Sun naturally got your attention right away.  However, it‟s the 7
aspects involving Neptune that really underscores his Pisces theme!  Like Pisces, the 12th House and
Neptune are all about SENSITIVITY, meaning sensitive to everything: physical sensitivity,
psychologically sensitive, i.e. impressionable, and of course psychic.  This sensitivity also increases
the capacity for inspiration or even having a vision.  The Pisces theme is congruent with creative
inspiration, especially in such fields as music, film, photography, dance and painting, as well as an
often more spiritual orientation.  Even the physical vitality of a 12th House Sun can be strongly
sustained by inspiration, spiritual or creative.  The 12th House/ Neptune spiritual path is also the path
of compassion, of healing, and of forgiveness.
The upside of a dreamer is „inspiration,‟ but the downside is „disillusionment.‟  Hence the challenge
with the Pisces theme is the challenge of coping with sensitivity and the inevitable collapse that
occurs during phases of disillusionment and overwhelming despair.  Spiritually inclined people will
often seek escape from the world, in ashrams, or monasteries, or other place of retreat.  However,
the well-known and notorious side of Pisces/Neptune/12th House is escapism through drugs or alcohol,
or almost any type of addictive behavior or avoidance patterns.   You cannot tell from looking at a
chart „alone‟ how well someone will cope with this sensitivity; it‟s necessary to interact with the
person to get an idea of the choice they‟ve made.  With this Neptune theme there can be miracles,
people that have succumbed to drug addiction sometimes recover miraculously to lead inspired lives.
The key if for the person with this theme is to find an outlet for their sensitivity, a way to express
it – either creatively or in compassionate service.
The Sagittarius theme underscores the expansive potential of his life in terms of education , travel
and a more broad based view of the world.  Philosophy and religion would naturally preoccupy him, as
would his search for the truth, a serious matter with Saturn in Sagittarius.  It might be argued that
since his Uranus is conjunct the MC it should be considered more of a Capricorn theme than a
Sagittarius theme, but I think that since it is 5 degrees away from the MC that it combines both 9th
house and 10th house associations.  Remember, interpretation is an “art” and not an exact science
even though we are utilizing a logical system of analysis.  Uranus in the 9th house would imply
experimental philosophies; implying someone that could invent new concepts or perhaps even
revolutionary ideas.  Such new philosophies could them be made more “public” due to the conjunction
with the MC.