Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 1
Module One Lesson 3 NATAL CHART INTERPRETATION
“Life Purpose Themes and Cluesabout the Lunar Nodes”
Now what?
Now that I’ve organized and prioritized the chart data, and
identified the theme signs that are the most prevalent in Gandhi’s
natal chart, what do I do?
At this point the challenge for you is how to arrange the themes
you’ve identified into an order of meaning.  In other words, what
does this all mean, and is there anything that can help us to
make some sense of this meaning?
Yes, now you are asking a profound question about the chart.
What is this person’s life really about?  Why are they here?  Is
there an overriding theme that can be understood, a “story line’
so to speak.
Right, up to this point you can use what you’ve learned about the
signs, planets, houses, aspects, and theme signs, to describe the
person and the possible circumstances of their life.  You can
identify important issues they deal with, but you’re left with the
question of “purpose,” i.e. “Why are they in this life?”
As many of you know, it is the LUNAR NODES that can provide
powerful clues regarding the “why” and “purpose” of someone’s
life.  David and I independently came to the same conclusions
about the Moon’s Nodes and developed very similar techniques
for using them in natal chart analysis.
I’ve got the North Node in
Gemini and Mercury in Pisces,
so having a second glass of
wine is good for me, right?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 2
Why?
The WHY of a person’s life is a most
challenging and fascinating question?
What do you think is implied by
saying the North Node is the
compass point of the whole chart?
Early in my practice, after I organized the chart data,I would list the
chart data into 2 columns.  I would put the North Node at the head of the
left columnand the South Node at the head of the right column.
This is me in 1985
 Why do you think I made this outline?
 Can you identify the logic of why the
list is organized the way it is?
 What do you think the North Node
column would be associated with?
 What do you think the South Node
column would be associated with?
SEE NODAL OUTLINE on the NEXT PAGE:
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 3
LIFE PATH OUTLINE:
North Node
South Node
Sign: Leo
(Moon
also)
Sign: Aquarius
(Connects with the Leo/Sun theme)
(Aquarius theme)
Associate: Sun
(Connects with
theme.)
(Connects with the
theme!)
(Connects with all the
aspects,
Venus in Scorpio connects with the Scorpio
Theme and Pluto!  (Venus opposite Pluto)
Uranus already has a high priority
Sun is in the
12th House
9th House but
MC
(Connects with the
theme)
and square the ASC
Sun
Saturn
10th House (Connects with the
theme)
4th House (Connects with
theme)
(Connects with all 6 aspects to the
)
10th House
(Connects all 6 aspects to the
)
Mercury is otherwise unaspected. [
]
Mercury square the nodes.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 4
It looks to me like the associate connections of sign, planet and
house were used to construct this outline, but I’m not sure why?
Yes, I see what you mean.  The sign of the Node is listed with its
ruling planet and their dispositors.
What is a dispositor?
A dispositorshows how planets seem to follow a kind of chain of
command.  Gandhi has a Libra Sun, ruled by Venus, Venus in Scorpio is
ruled by Pluto, and Pluto in Taurus is ruled by Scorpio!  This chain
ends with Venus and Pluto, who are mutually receptive!
I’ve forgotten what mutually receptive means?
Mutual reception is when two planets are in each other’s signs.  Pluto
is in the Venus sign of Taurus and Venus is in the Pluto sign of
Scorpio.  In function such planets can seem to almost trade places.
But what does this really mean?
I think it means that Venus and Pluto represent a kind of “bottom
line” in Gandhi’s internal chain of command.  These two planets
closely oppose each other showing a fundamental tension in Gandhi’s
nature.
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 5
This is way too abstract for me!  I just want to know in plain terms
what this really means!?  Suppose this wasn’t Gandhi?  It seems to
me that a lot of people with this kind of aspect would have trouble
trusting other people in relationships.  They could be very jealous!
Gandhi was jealous when he was younger.  He wrote quite a bit about
how jealous he was when his young wife would go away to spend time
with her family.
People!  We’ve gotten way off track here.  Aren’t we supposed to be
looking at this Life Path Outline?  I’m still trying to figure out what
purpose it serves and how to use it to help interpret a birth chart.
Looks like the HOUSE of the Lunar Node is important too.  Its listed
along with the sign.  But I’m totally confused by the outline.  It’s not
helping me.
It seems like a logical outline to me.  I copied my own list of key
words from David’s Intermediate Course material and from his book,
and I think his outline might be a way to divide the chart into North
Node associations versus South Node associations.  Here’s my list:
North Node
South Node
Intent
Habit
Fulfillment
Security
Development
Completion
Beginning
Finishing
New
Old
Unfamiliar
Familiar
The process of becoming
Going through the motions
Discovery
Playing it safe
Getting in over your head
Over developed
Dharma
Karma
Unknown
Well known
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 6
I was thinking the same thing, but there are parts of the diagram
that are very confusing to me.  I noticed that the Moon is in both the
North Node column and the South Node column.  So what does this
mean?
I noticed this too.  I’m sure he will explain this in class, because I’m
not sure what he means either?
I have questions about the Lunar Nodes that don’t have anything to
do with this outline.  I want to know how do you combine the sign
with the house when interpreting the Lunar Nodes?
Me too! How do you interpret the North Node in Aries in the 7th
House, or the North Node in Cancer in the 10th house?
It’s not just that, I want to know about the constructive and
destructive potential for even a nodal sign.  What about the South
Node in Cancer?  What’s the destructive side versus the
constructive side.
I would like to hear more stories.  This is what I like about The Soul
Purpose, there are a variety of stories about famous people with the
Nodes through the signs, that show a variety of real life examples.
I like stories too.  I’d like to hear different story examples of
Gandhi’s natal chart that are NOT Gandhi.  Gandhi was too perfect.
There must’ve been many thousands of people born with a similar
chart that had much different lives than Gandhi.
Stories are great, but I prefer a more logical process.  I’ve created
a list of what I’d like Mr. Railey to cover:
1. What are the psychological/ dynamics of the Lunar Nodes?
2. What’s the highest possible manifestation?
3. What’s the lowest possible manifestation?
4. What’s the talent potential for this configuration?
5. How should they use this talent?
6. How might this manifest in career?
7. How might this manifest in relationships?
Nodoor.com  Certified Online Astrology Course by David Railey - 7
8. If this is done right, what sense of fulfillment will the
person
have?
9. If this is done wrong, what consequences will they face?
10. Let’s use just one configuration in the chart to tell a story
11. Then, let’s apply this to Gandhi’s life, and see how these
questions reveal more about his life?
I was born with the South
Node in Sagittarius in the 9th
House, so it seems like they
should have just given me a
degree and a passport when I
was born.
I’ve been reading about the Lunar
Nodes and it seems like it takes
your whole life before you can fully
manifest the potential of your
North Node.  My boyfriend has the
North Node in Gemini and  I
wonder how long it will take him to
become a better communicator!?
What’s she not telling you is that
he has Mercury in Pisces, and
she found a poem he texted
recently to an old girlfriend that
he neglected to mention to her.